WASHINGTON: A milestone has arrived for President Barack Obama: Daughter Malia is graduating from high school.The 17-year-old is receiving her diploma from the private Sidwell Friends School on Friday. Malia Obama was just 10 years old and longing for a promised puppy when her family moved into the White House. During seven years of growing up in the public eye, she has gotten and shed braces, learned to drive and even spent brief stints away from her family.Presidents are parents, too, and it hasn't been easy for Obama to watch as his daughter - "one of my best friends" - has grown up fast, and in front of the world."I'm not going to talk about the fact that my daughter leaving me is just breaking my heart," he said last week.Months ago, the president blamed his emotions for declining an invitation to deliver the commencement address at the elite school where Malia is among 127 members of the Class of 2016. Younger sister Sasha, who turned 15 on Friday, attends Sidwell, too.What's next? Malia is taking a year for herself before enrolling at Harvard in the fall of 2017.Neither Obama nor his wife, Michelle, has said what Malia has on tap for her "gap year". But delaying the start of college could keep her close to her tight-knit family as it prepares for another big transition next year: the end of Obama's ground-breaking presidency. The Obamas plan to stick around Washington for several years after the president leaves office so Sasha can finish high school here.Both parents often praise Malia and her sister for being normal, happy kids despite living lives that are anything but normal.Start with calling the White House home. They were the youngest kids to do so since President John F Kennedy's children, Caroline and John Jr, and they were trailed in public by Secret Service agents. Obama has joked that it was comforting to know that when his girls were out and about they were being watched over by "men with guns".Malia has traveled to Europe, Africa, Asia, South America and the Caribbean with her parents, and taken a school trip to Mexico. She's met celebrities and high-powered people, including two popes.The first lady has said her daughter wants to be a filmmaker. Malia has had summer internships on the New York set of HBO's "Girls" and in Los Angeles on a CBS sci-fi drama, since canceled, that starred Halle Berry. The experiences allowed her to sample life on her own, though not outside the reach of her Secret Service protectors.Three months into her new White House life, Malia got the long-awaited puppy: Bo, a Portuguese water dog that was less likely than other breeds to aggravate her allergies. Obama had promised his kids a dog after the November 2008 election.The young girl whose swing set still sits just outside the Oval Office is now taller than her 6-foot-1 dad, and turns heads whenever she's spotted around town - including driving her car.At school, Malia played soccer and tennis, the flute and piano. In a house with 132 rooms, she opted not to share one with her sister. Both girls get themselves up early every day to get ready for school, the first lady has said. They also make their own beds and handle their laundry.Braces appeared when Malia was 12. Secret Service agents taught her how to drive.Malia turns 18 on July 4, in time to cast her first vote for president - and for her father's successor.
WASHINGTON: Describing the just concluded US visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as "historic", the Obama administration has christened his vision of Indo-US ties that has  overcome the "hesitations of history"  and working for the betterment of the global good as "Modi Doctrine".      "The most important outcome in my mind of the visit this week and of the years of effort that preceded it is the clear and compelling vision that was laid out by Prime Minister Modi before joint session of the US Congress," assistant secretary of state for South and Central Asia Nisha Desai Biswal said.      "This vision which I have come to call the "Modi Doctrine laid out a foreign policy that overcomes the hesitations of history and embraces the convergence between our two countries and our shared interests," Biswal told a Washington audience.      Biswal, the Obama administration's point person for South and Central Asia, said this at a discussion on 'security and strategic outcomes from the Modi visit' organised on Thursday here jointly by the Heritage Foundation — an American think-tank — and India Foundation, a New Delhi based think-tank.      Modi, she said, in his speech furthered his bold vision of India-US partnership that can anchor peace, prosperity and stability from Asia to Africa, from the Indian Ocean to the Pacific and help ensure the security of the sea lanes of commerce and freedom of navigation on the seas.      "This Modi Doctrine notes that the absence of an agreed security architecture creates uncertainty in Asia and reiterates India's adherence to and calls for others support for international laws and norms," Biswal said.      India, she said, is now key element of Obama administration's rebalance to Asia  , a strategy which recognizes that America's security and prosperity increasingly depend on the security and prosperity of the Indo-Pacific.      "The joint strategic vision which was issued last year laid out our mutual goals and interests in the Indo-Pacific and across the global commons. We are now implementing a road map that sets out a path of co-operation to achieve those goals and protect those interests," Biswal said.      In his remarks, US ambassador to India Richard Verma said the US welcomes and shares the Prime Minister's vision.      "We have made a clear and strategic choice to support India's transition to become, as foreign secretary S Jaishankar has articulated, a leading power. Our actions, as security partners in every sense of the word, speak to this endeavor," he said.      "We envision India as a leading power that can uphold international norms and support what defence secretary Carter called last week a 'principled security network' in Asia. A leading power that can grow its economy while at the same time demonstrating global leadership on clean energy and climate," he said.      "And a leading power that joins likeminded partners to safeguard the global commons. Realising this vision will require diligent work on part of the bureaucracies in both Washington and Delhi and resilience to overcome obstacles that may arise," Verma said.      Indian ambassador to the US Arun K Singh described the Prime Minister's visit as "historic".      "There is a need step-by-step to build confidence and to build the habit of working together. That calls for regular meetings including at the highest levels," Singh said.      On the political side, he said: "We are finding that even though we may not agree on every aspect there is an increasing convergence in our interest and assessment of issues."      In the Prime Minister's speech to the Congress there was a reflection of the fact that this growing convergence is in the interest of India and the US. The areas of convergence are in the field of terrorism, situation in the Indian Ocean, Asia Pacific region, cyber issues.      Singh said the two countries have recognised that clean energy would be an important area of partnership.      These remarks were followed by a panel discussion by G Parthasarthy, former Indian diplomat, Baijayant Panda, Member of Parliament; Vice Admiral (rtd) Shekhar Sinha; Sadanand Dhume, resident fellow, American Enterprise Institute and Ashley J Tellis, from Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.      Panda said some senior people from the US State Department have described Prime Minister's speech and his vision of India-US relationship as 'Modi doctrine'.      "This is not a coinage from the Indian side. This is a coinage from the American side, which I think is a very important way to describe it. So clearly it is historic shifting of gears," he said.      Read this story in Hindi
Mumbai, Jun 10 () Jewel Alliance Network is looking to raise Rs 100 crore in two months to expand Gemporia TV network in the country.  Jewel Alliance Network is a joint venture between the UK's Gemporia and India's Pink City Jewellers.  "We have invested Rs 30 crore seed fund to set up exclusive jewellery shopping channel Gemporia TV in India, seven months ago. Since then, we have tied up with major DTH players in the country and are now planning to expand that network and also enter into agreements with cable TV networks.  "For this, we are planning to raise Rs 100 crore through either private equity firms or venture capital funds, which fund e-commerce ventures," Jewel Alliance Network Co-Founder Manuj Goyal told here.  Goyal added that after raising the fund, Gemporia is looking at a turnover of Rs 300 crore within one year.  At present, Gemporia earns about Rs 10-15 lakh with 400-500 shipments per day, he added.  He further said the company would raise the funds by offloading a minority stake.  Television is a much bigger medium than ecommerce today, as Gemporia TV received 10,000 calls in May, he added.  From September 2015 till March 2016, the revenue of the company stood at Rs 13 crore, he said.  In the long term, it is looking at Rs 2,000-3,000 crore sales. The company is also planning shop-in-shops next year.  "Besides Jaipur-based Pink City Jewellers, 40 other vendors supply jewellery to Gemporia. Going forward to cater to the expanding sales, we are also planning to enhance the manufacturing capacity of Pink City Jewellers and increase our vendor base," he added.  Gemporia started business in the UK and then went to the US. SM SDL PRB ABK
Mumbai, June 10 (IANS) Production banner Yash Raj Films (YRF) in association with online game portal 99Games on Friday launched the official game for Bollywood superstar Salman Khan's upcoming film "Sultan". The actor said more than a game, "Sultan: The Game" is a sport.      "Sultan is not just a game, its a sport. 'Sultan: The Game' download the game now," Salman posted on Twitter on Friday.      The game is now available on Google Play and will shortly be available at other platforms too.      "At YRF, we are very particular when it comes to our partnerships and firmly believe that film-themed games are not just another avenue to market our film. We treat games as a massive opportunity to engage with cinema-goers as well as widen our audience base," Manan Mehta, Vice-President of Marketing and Merchandise, YRF, said in a statement.      The game is based on the upcoming film "Sultan", directed by Ali Abbas Zafar. Also starring Anushka Sharma, Randeep Hooda and Amit Sadh, the movie features Salman in the title character -- a wrestler, who goes on to win the gold medal for India in wrestling.      Due to some reasons, he leaves wrestling and returns to the sport after some time, when age and an unfit body are hurdles in front of him. He is then coached by Randeep's character in mixed martial arts (MMA) and reaches the big stage. Anushka, who also essays a wrestler, plays his love interest in the film.      Produced by Aditya Chopra, "Sultan" is slated to release on Eid this year.      Rohith Bhat, CEO, 99Games, said: "The release of 'Sultan: The Game' has further cemented our relationship with Yash Raj Films. We've attempted to do something different this time with 'Sultan: The Game'. We've opened up pre-registrations for the game and have seen a tremendous response so far."      --IANS      sas/rb/vt
NEW DELHI: Three Indian cement makers have significantly reduced emissions among the top 12 producers of the building material in the world, a report revealed by Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) said on Thursday.Indian companies especially ACC, Ambuja and Shree Cement have brought significant changes in order to meet the Paris agreement objectives. The new report, said that 12 cement companies - worth $120bn - have been warned that "significant innovation" is necessary in order to drive efficiency beyond current standards.The Carbon Disclosure Project India (CDP India) works with Indian companies to promote sustainable development and safeguarding natural capital.The cement industry responsible for 5% of global emissions will need to deploy highly innovative product and process technologies to meet the Paris Agreement objectives, the report said. The report also highlighted that "forward-looking" companies will see emission targets expire within the next few years, with some companies facing an earnings hit of 144% before interest and tax."This is the first piece of major research to break down how major players in the cement industry are meeting the challenge of reducing emissions in line with the science called for by the Paris Agreement," Tarek Soliman, senior analyst, Investor Research at CDP said in a statement.  "The climate leadership categorically demonstrated by Indian companies especially ACC, Ambuja (both part of the Holcim group) and Shree Cement underscores their world standing. With enabling policies these companies will be able to continue their green governance which will be crucial as the country launches a massive infrastructure push in coming decades," Damandeep Singh, CDP India director said.  Important findings from the report include: The report recommends that in order to be consistent with the Paris Agreement cement companies must increase their use of alternative fuel sources, implement thermal energy efficiency measures and use decarbonized substitute materials to a much greater degree. Only three companies in the report have outlined plans for reducing their emissions in line with global carbon budgets (science-based targets) and other companies' plans are not ambitious enough.  More than 50% of cement facilities are currently located in areas of water stress and the report finds water scarcity to be a potential issue for the sector. In particular, it poses a significant risk to two Indian cement companies, Ultratech and Shree Cement, as well as other companies operating in the country where water shortages exacerbated by climate change may restrict growth. The worst performers tend to be those not supportive of climate legislation, and tightening regulation is likely to drive industry change. For example, a strengthening of the EU emissions trading system (EU ETS) is currently being negotiated which affects at least eight of the cement companies in this report. Even if free allowances remain and benefit the industry in the short-term, a stronger price signal is clearly likely in the mid-term, as well as deeper emissions reductions from the sector. Those who remain behind the curve will face significant financial impacts. Recent industry consolidation has the potential to improve company carbon performance, with CDP's league table leaders merging (LafargeHolcim) with more potential to invest in industry leading performance improvements as a result. 2016 will see Heidelberg Cement acquire laggard Italcementi, meaning the latter could benefit from the former's more carbon efficient practices. Anhui Conch Cement (China), Siam Cement (Thailand), Dangote Cement (Nigeria) and Vulcan Materials (USA), which collectively represent over $60 billion in market capitalization, did not respond to CDP's 2015 climate change questionnaire and are therefore not included in this report. Investors should ask these companies why they are not providing sufficient transparency on their carbon emissions.
WASHINGTON: "What do you mean no visa for Modi? Right now they are ready to give him a Congressional Medal and a citizenship to go with it," was one snarky aside as US lawmakers tripped over each other for autographs of the Prime Minister  after his address to the joint session of the US Congress, in scenes reminiscent of Indian MPs fawning over Bill Clinton in the Indian Parliament in 2000. A photo posted on social media of Modi signing autographs joked about him taking orders for thepla, khakra, ganthia and other Gujarati savories. That must have been the most number of Congressmen he has ever addressed; in India, he can get a maximum of 44, joshed someone on Twitter. It was a trip that launched a thousand quips. As Prime Minister Narendra Modi returns home on Friday  after a frenetic five-country, six-day swing across the world culminating in Mexico City, he could well reflect on the sardonic observation of a Mexican leader to describe his country's unequal relationship with its northern neighbour: "Poor Mexico! So far from God, so close to the United States!" In aligning New Delhi ever closer to Washington, Modi risks provoking the deepest pathology of India's long-serving leftist laity, which is already champing at the bit at a "sell-out" to a country that has long believed, to paraphrase the singer Bob Dylan's putdown, that "God's on our side."However, it's real-politik, or real geo-politik, not God or manifest destiny, that has propelled Modi's India closer to the US, conversations and briefings with both US and Indian officials reveal. Both sides are also quick to clarify that the increasing alignment of views and objectives does not preclude each country's strategic autonomy that may result in differences from time to time, something Modi himself alluded to in his address US lawmakers. But short of becoming a formal treaty ally of the US (such as Japan, South Korea, the Philippines etc), Narendra Damodardas Modi, the man who was barred from visited the US less than a decade ago, has moved India closer to America than ever before in its history.Leaving aside the weeds for pundits to wade through, here are the broad and public indications of an enhanced new US-Indian alliance that has emerged over the last few months, including during and immediately preceding the visit1. Chabahar: Just before Modi embarked on his US visit, India, Iran, and Afghanistan wrapped up the Chabahar port deal — with implicit American nod despite residual US suspicions about Iran. The port actually gives US a second line of entry to Afghanistan should things go out of whack with Pakistan2. Arlington: Modi began his Washington trip with visit to the Arlington Memorial, where the casualties of the many US wars are buried, despite a history of Indian opposition to what New Delhi's Nehru-Gandhi political lineage regards as US adventurism. More explicitly, in his speech to the US Congress, he spoke of the "final resting place of many brave soldiers of this great land," and "honoring their courage and sacrifice for the ideals of freedom and democracy."3. MTCR/NSG: The Obama administration swung India's entry into the Missile Technology Control Regime just as Modi arrived in Washington, in a sign that it is willing to use the MTCR key to try and force the issue of India's entry to the Nuclear Suppliers' Group, which China is blocking. China is not a member of MTCR, but US officials told Indian journalists it is their "strong objective" to have India join the NSG  in its plenary this month. All this - MTCR, NSG etc - is aimed at eventually securing India a seat at the high table in a reformed UN Security Council, a stated US objective.4. The mysterious road map: Aside from designating India as a major military partner, US officials also said Obama and Modi had "completed a road map" describing "what we will be doing together to achieve that leader's vision." They mysteriously insisted that the road map would not be disseminated, but indicated broadly that it advanced the "joint strategic vision" of the two countries in Asia-Pacific and Indian Ocean into specific actions. "It's clear, every time they get together there is a much stronger convergence of their perspectives on security challenges and opportunities, and there's a growing commitment to work together to achieve those shared objectives," a senior US administration official who briefed Indian journalists on background after the Modi-Obama meeting said. "This time they completed a road map that describes what we will be doing together to achieve that leader's vision." The road map, the official added cryptically and suo motu, would not be disseminated. But for that remark, one wouldn't have even guessed that it is a written document.Now if that doesn't sound like a formal alliance, it certainly smells like team spirit.
NEW DELHI/KOLKATA: Suspected militants have abducted an Indian female aid worker from Kabul, Indian and Afghan officials said on Friday.      The woman was identified as Judith D'Souza, 40, a senior technical adviser on gender with the Aga Khan Developmental Network in Kabul.      The Kolkata-based family of Judith D'Souza on Friday expressed the hope that India and Afghanistan will act soon to have her released.      "It happened in a different country. The government of that country should take steps. She liked the place as she said there was a lot of work to be done," her sister Agnes D'Souza said.      "But if such a thing happens, who would want to go back. I am asking every channel to do their part. The government of India must do something and get my sister back. I want her back," she added.      Asked about Taliban involvement in the crime, she said: "I don't know."      Judith's family came to know about the development at around 1.30am on Friday from the Indian embassy in Kabul.      "We are waiting for more information and then we will act accordingly," said the sister.      "I tried the embassy (in Kabul) but it is closed as it is Friday. People in Delhi are trying on our behalf to contact the authorities."      Judith never spoke about any danger to her, the sister said.      "She has been abroad before but this is the first time this has happened," Agnes D'Souza said.
PANAJI: The India Meteorological Department has forecast heavy rains in Goa on Saturday as the monsoon is expected to reach the coastal state."The conditions are favourable for advancing of the monsoon. As per our forecast, it will set over Goa tomorrow (June 11)," Director of Goa Meteorological Centre VK Mini said on Friday.The weather bulletin has issued forecast that heavy rainfall is very likely to occur at isolated places over Goa on Friday, Saturday and Sunday.The MeT has warned fishermen against venturing out in the sea."Winds will be westerly to south-westerly at a speed of 45-50 km per hour. Sea will be rough with westerly to south-westerly waves."Fishermen are advised not to go out in the sea during the next 24 hours," the weatherman said.


NEW DELHI: A power plant in Iceland has shown the world a new way to cut carbon emissions - by turning them into solid rock! This unexpected result came about when scientists and engineers working at the Hellisheidipower plant, the world's largest geothermal facility pumped emissions back into the earth. The carbon dioxide reacted with other chemicals in the rocks and changed chemically to a solid within months — radically faster than anyone had predicted. A study describing the method appears this week in the leading journal Science.   The power plant provides the energy for Iceland's capital, Reykjavik, plus power for industry, by pumping up volcanically heated water to run turbines. But the process is not completely clean; it also brings up volcanic gases, including carbon dioxide and nasty-smelling hydrogen sulfide.   Edda Aradottir, who heads the project for Reykjavik Energy, initially estimated the solidification process might take 8 to 12 years. "Then, it happened much faster. It was a very welcome surprise," she said.   Cores drilled from the injected area show the rock is heavily laced with whitish carbonate veins, apparently produced by the process. Under a pilot project called Carbfix, started in 2012, the plant began mixing the gases with the water pumped from below and reinjecting the solution into the volcanic basalt below. In nature, when basalt is exposed to carbon dioxide and water, a series of natural chemical reactions takes place, and the carbon precipitates out into a whitish, chalky mineral.   But no one knew how fast this might happen if the process were harnessed for carbon storage. Previous studies have estimated that in most rocks, it would take hundreds or even thousands of years. In the basalt below Hellisheidi, 95 percent of the injected carbon was solidified within less than two years.   "This means that we can pump down large amounts of CO2 and store it in a very safe way over a very short period of time," said study coauthor, Martin Stute, a hydrologist at Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. "In the future, we could think of using this for power plants in places where there's a lot of basalt — and there are many such places." Basically all the world's seafloors are made of the porous, blackish rock, as are about 10 percent of continental rocks.   Sigurdur Gislason, a University of Icelandgeologist and study coauthor, said geothermal companies around the world have shown interest in the technology. But, he said, its greatest promise would be with fossil-fuel-powered plants, smelters and other heavy industries that produce far more emissions. The main stumbling block beyond the needed basalt, he said, is the water required — about 25 tons for every ton of CO2. But, he said, in many places seawater could be used.   The Hellisheidi operation has an advantage in that it largely uses the plant's existing infrastructure to reinject the solution, and doesn't bother purifying the CO2. Its cost is only $30 a ton, said Aradottir.   Scientists have been tussling for years with the idea of so-called carbon capture and sequestration. But up to now, projects have made little progress. It has been tried at only a handful of sites, and most experiments have involved pumping pure carbon dioxide into sandstone, or deep, salty aquifers. But scientists are worried that any miscalculation could result in emissions making their way back up through fractures, or that natural earthquakes or tremors caused by the injection itself could rupture subterranean reservoirs.
NEW DELHI: Five men were on Friday sentenced to life imprisonment by a Delhi court for gangraping a 52-year-old Danish woman at knife-point near the New Delhi railway station two years ago.      Additional Sessions Judge Ramesh Kumar awarded the jail term to convicts Mahender alias Ganja (25), Mohd Raja (25), Raju (23), Arjun (21) and Raju Chakka (30).      "For the offence of section 376 D IPC, all the convicts are sentenced to life imprisonment," the judge said while pronouncing the order.      The court also imposed a fine of Rs 83,000 each on Raju and Raju Chakka, Rs 93,000 each on Mahender and Mohd Raja and Rs 1,03,000 on Arjun respectively.      The court has held these five men guilty for the offences under IPC sections 376 (D) (gang rape), 395 (dacoity), 366 (kidnapping), 342 (wrongful confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention).      Besides sentencing these convicts for the offence of gangrape, the court also awarded varying jail terms to them for other offences for which they were held guilty.      According to the police, the nine persons, all vagabonds, had robbed and gangraped the Danish tourist at knife-point on the night of January 14, 2014, after leading her to a secluded spot close to the Divisional Railway Officers' Club near the railway station.      The sixth accused, 56-year-old Shyam Lal had died in February this year and proceedings against him were abated.      Three other accused in the case are juveniles and inquiry against them is in progress before the Juvenile Justice Board.      Before commencement of proceedings today, the convicts were taken out of the courtroom and were frisked by the police on the direction of the judge.      Special Public Prosecutor Atul Shrivastava had sought maximum punishment for the convicts ie. imprisonment till the remainder of natural life, saying the crime was committed in a barbaric and inhuman manner.      Legal aid counsel Dinesh Sharma, who represented the convicts, had sought leniency for them saying they belong to poor background.      The victim had come here on January 1, 2014, and stayed for a couple of days before leaving for Agra. After visiting several places, she returned to Delhi on January 13, 2014, and stayed in a hotel in Paharganj near the station.      The next day when she was returning to her hotel, she lost her way and had asked one of the accused for directions when the men waylaid and gangraped her.      During the trial, the accused had claimed innocence.
NEW DELHI: Information and broadcasting minister Arun Jaitley on Thursday said film certification norms will have to be liberal and "some very radical changes" will be announced over the next few days. The film 'Udta Punjab' was handed down 89 cuts by the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) and its makers have appealed in the Film Certificate Appelate Tribunal (FCAT). FCAT is expected to hear the case on June 17 when the film was scheduled for release. The filmmakers have also approached the Bombay high court for relief.  Speaking on the 'Udta Punjab' controversy, Jaitley said, "I won't say it is overboard. I don't know this case because I have not seen this film in question."  Stating that he was "not satisfied" with the existing system of film certification, Jaitley said some changes were about to be made. "There is a well documented report by Shyam Benegal, the first part of which has come to me which is under consideration. Over the next few days, we are going to announce some very radical changes in that," he said.  The Benegal committee, he said, has suggested some changes. "You will probably have a system where you will have to have a certificate. The correct word is certification and not censorship. Certification norms will have to be liberal," Jaitley said at a function here. The CBFC has contended that 'Udta Punjab', a drug-themed crime thriller, needed several cuts as it cast the state in a bad light by giving an impression that most people there were addicts. The numerous cuts sparked a confrontation between Bollywood filmmakers, the censor board and political parties.  On the row, Jaitley said, "I think that we are overstating it because at the end of the day, you have a board which takes a view which may be a little conservative view but then at the appeal tribunal, with an appeal, it can get disposed of. My experience has been almost everything then gets cleared ."  Trying to play down the controversy, he said there were people in the system whose attitude may be a little conservative. "But then there are internal checks and balances. For instance, I look at the big picture and the big picture is a certification board, we popularly call it censor board and you have the appeal tribunal. Now, whenever you have a problem at the level of the first body, people go to the next slab and almost in 99% of the cases, with or without some changes, it gets cleared by the next body," he said.
Mumbai (Maharashtra), June 10, (ANI): The Bombay High Court on Friday adjourned the hearing of Shahid Kapoor starrer 'Udta Punjab', and said it will pronounce its order on the matter on June 13.  The High Court, which is presently hearing a case against 'Udta Punjab', today told the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) that multiplex audience are mature enough and added that the people should be allowed to see the film as everybody has a choice.  'Udta Punjab' hearing - Developments so far:  1. CBFC lawyer informs the court that the words used in the songs of the film are very offensive.  2. The censor board says that scenes in this movie which we have asked to cut are very vulgar.  3. The censor board says the dialogue "zameen banjar to aulaad kanjar" is also very abusive. Punjab is an "upjau" state.  4. The censor board says there is a dog which has been named as Jackie Chan, which is also objectionable.  5. Court said, All this is giving unnecessary publicity to the film  6. Court said, Multiplex audience are mature enough. Whether it is TV or cinema, let the people see it. Everybody has a choice.  The order on the same has been reserved till 5 p.m. today whereas the trial proceeding has been adjourned till July 8. (ANI)
New Delhi, June 10 (IANS) Bollywood's livewire actor Ranveer Singh, who was felicitated with the 'Indian of The Year - Special Achievement Award' by CNN-NEWS18 here, says he feels "blessed" with the honour."I feel blessed, humbled and grateful to be honoured as CNN-NEWS18's 'Indian of the year' for Special Achievement. I'm elated to have my name included in the list of stalwarts and legends of the Indian entertainment industry at this early stage in my career," Ranveer said in a statement.The 30-year-old star made his debut in 2010 in the film "Band Baaja Baaraat" and has worked in many entertainers like "Ladies vs Ricky Bahl", "Lootera", "Gunday", "Dil Dhadakne Do" and "Bajirao Mastani".Ranveer says he has been fortunate to have been "given some wonderful opportunities" to showcase his abilities as a performer."I'm thankful to everyone who has contributed towards my work. Receiving this huge honour has only motivated me further to work harder to hone my craft going forward. and be the most wholesome entertainer I can be," he added.The actor is currently busy shooting for his next film "Befikre" in Paris along with actress Vaani Kapoor. His father received the award at an event in the capital on Thursday from Finance Minister Arun Jaitley.For Ranveer, that was his "proudest moment".--IANSdc/rb/bg
DHAKA: A Hindu ashram worker was on Friday hacked to death by unidentified assailants while he was out for the morning walk, days after another priest was killed by suspected ISIS jihadists in the Muslim-majority nation which has seen a string of brutal attacks by Islamists on religious minorities and secular activists.      60-year-old Nityaranjan Pandey of Thakur Anukul Chandra Satsanga Paramtirtha Hemayetpurdham ashram was attacked by several assailants who hacked him in the neck, said ASP (Sadar Circle) Selim Khan.      Pandey, who was working at the ashram as a volunteer for the past 40 years, was attacked near the ashram in Pabna's Hemayetpur Upazila during his regular morning walk, Khan was quoted as saying by bdnews.      There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the murder.      This is the second such murder within three days. On June 7, a Hindu priest was hacked to death by three suspected Islamic State jihadists  who nearly severed his head.      There have been systematic assaults in Bangladesh in recent months specially targeting minorities, secular bloggers, intellectuals and foreigners.      On Sunday, a Christian businessman was hacked to death by unidentified machete-wielding men near a church, hours after the wife of a top anti-terror police officer was shot dead by religious extremists.      In February, militants stabbed to death another Hindu priest at a temple in Bangladesh and shot and wounded a devotee who went to his aid.      In April, a liberal professor was brutally hacked to death by machete-wielding ISIS militants who slit his throat near his home in Rajshahi city. In the same month, a Hindu tailor was also hacked to death by ISIS militants in his shop and Bangladesh's first gay magazine editor was brutally murdered along with a friend in his flat in Dhaka by Islamists.      The ISIS and al-Qaida in Indian Peninsula have claimed responsibility for some of the attacks although the government denies their presence in Bangladesh.        Read this story in Marathi.
LONDON: The threat of a terrorist attack using nuclear material is the highest since the end of the Cold War, with ISISactively trying to acquire weapons of mass destruction, according to a leading international think-tank on proliferation.   "ISIS has already carried out numerous chemical weapons attacks in Syria; we know it wants to go further by carrying out a nuclear attack in the heart of Europe. This, combined with poor levels of security at a host of nuclear research centres in the former Soviet Union mean the threat of a possible 'dirty-bomb' attack on a Western capital is high," said Moshe Kantor, the president of the International Luxembourg Forum.   The warning from the organisation, whose members include former government ministers and senior officials from Russia and the West, comes amid deep apprehension that jihadists will attempt to carry out atrocities during the impending Euro 2016 football championship in France. The forum is not suggesting that a terrorist nuclear attack is likely to take place during the tournament, but Dr Kantor pointed out that the Islamist cell which carried out the Brussels attacks two months ago were believed to be monitoring workers and security arrangements at a Belgian nuclear facility.   "Their previous documented attempts to gain access to a nuclear power station in Belgium are evidence of their intent," he stated at an international conference in Amsterdam. "The terrorists don't necessarily have to use a 'dirty bomb'. We are not just talking about stolen nuclear material, using conventional explosives in a nuclear plant, such as smuggling in a bomb, would have catastrophic consequences."   Former British defence secretary Des Browne, a member of the forum and vice-chairman of the Nuclear Threat Initiative (NTI), said the threat of nuclear terrorism was a highly significant and complex issue which needed a unified international response. "It shouldn't be a surprise that if terrorists get hold of nuclear material they will try to use it, we also know that they are seeking such material, there were reports, for example, of ISIS getting hold of uranium when they captured Mosul," he said.   "It isn't that hard to build a 'dirty bomb'. They may not kill that many people with such a bomb, but the effect on the environment, the infrastructure and the psychological impact on people would be devastating. They can also use cyber warfare to target a nuclear facility."   The meeting in Amsterdam marks the 30th anniversary of the Reykjavik summit between US President Ronald Regan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev which paved the way for a historic missile treaty between the US and the Soviet Union. It comes after a nuclear conference hosted by President Barack Obama in Washington earlier this year which focused on the threat of a terrorist attack using nuclear material by ISIS and other extremist groups following the Paris and Brussels attacks.   The President's deputy national security adviser, Ben Rhodes, said: "We know that terrorist organisations have the desire to get access to these raw materials and to have a nuclear device."   Around 2,000 metric tons of highly enriched uranium and separated plutonium, that is being used internationally in civilian and military programmes, could be turned into a nuclear bomb if stolen or diverted, said the White House. But fewer than half of the 50 countries attending the summit had even agreed to secure their sources of radiological material.   President Vladimir Putinrefused to attend the Washington meeting with the Kremlin claiming it was an American attempt to take over the system of securing radioactive material. It was revealed last autumn that four attempts by Russian-linked gangs in Moldova, a former Soviet state, to sell nuclear material to terrorists, including ISIS, has been foiled. Evidence laid before the courts by Moldovan authorities showed that the smugglers had tried to exploit a breakdown in cooperation between Russia and the West on security issues.   Pakistani President Nawaz Sharif also cancelled his Washington visit after an Islamist terrorist bombing killed 72 people. His country, which has a nuclear arsenal, and figures in the military and security establishment that may be sympathetic to jihadists, is viewed by analyst as a prime source for a terrorist device.   President Obama had repeatedly stressed the danger of nuclear terrorism and his emphasis on nuclear disarmament was an important factor in him winning the Nobel peace prize. Months into his presidency, he said in a much publicised speech in Prague that nuclear weapons were "the most dangerous legacy of the Cold War".   But in Amsterdam yesterday, Dr Kantor held that the current impasse on nuclear arms control was due to the stance of Washington. "The United States' refusal to discuss limits for its missile defence programme is a bottleneck for talks, which impedes the entire process of controlling nuclear weapons and heightens the threat of a nuclear incident. If we take the matter seriously, there should be no 'sacred cows' either among defensive or offensive weapons," he argued.   In a video message to the conference, Mr Gorbachev, said: "We cannot be satisfied with the current situation, the window to a nuclear-free world first opened in Reykjavik, is being shut and locked before our eyes...The danger of nuclear weapons proliferation has grown to a large extent for this reason."
Mumbai, June 10 (ANI): With the Bombay High Court set to pronounce its verdict on 'Udta Punjab' fiasco next week, filmmakers on Friday offered three disclaimers clarifying their stand.  "We have offered disclaimers in three parts; one is that we are not depicting any state in any manner, the use of words is also not in any bad manner and the message of the film is that it neither propagate the use of any kind of drugs nor does it put the state in bad light," Amit Nair, the advocate representing the film makers, told the media here.  "The arguments have been concluded the matter has been kept for judgement on Monday," he added.  The Bombay High Court today called the 'hue and cry' surrounding 13 cuts suggested by the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) to the film and the production house's decision to challenge the suggested cuts as 'an unnecessary publicity to the film'.  The CBFC had asked for 13 cuts in the film which included references to Punjab, expletives and drug scenes among others.  The board also wanted 'Punjab' removed from the title (ANI)

Mumbai, June 10 (IANS) Actor-producer Anil Kapoor is set to fire bullets, throw punches at the bad guys and engage in stunts in the upcoming TV show "24: Season 2". The 59-year-old, who has been in the film industry for almost four decades, says the Indian adaptation of the popular American TV show is the most taxing project for him so far.      Anil will return as Anti-Terrorism Squad agent Jai Singh Rathore in the second season of the espionage thriller, which will go on air on Colors from July 17 onwards.      "'24' is the most taxing assignment of my career. Doing a movie is much easier as it's just one movie. This is like eight movies... Eight action films together. That's the difference," Anil told IANS here after the launch of the action-packed trailer of "24: Season 2".      Talking about the stunts in the show, the "Mr. India" star said: "My body is all bruised. I had to go to a physiotherapist as well. In fact, some of the stuntmen also got injured, but everyone is fit to work relentlessly."      The first season of "24", which also had veteran actors like Shabana Azmi and Anupam Kher, was launched in India in 2013. It's an official adaptation brought to India by Anil, who even worked in the international version of the show.      Isn't he worried that people will lose interest in the show due to such a gap in the seasons?      "When we do this kind of a show, there is a lot of recall value. When you put in so much of effort and commitment, and the content is so strong... Even if it comes out once in two years, people will remember it and will want it back. There are so many sequels to films. They don't come every year. Still people go to see the films.      "'24' is more like a film. We shoot it like a film. The scale and the kind of commitment we have, are no less than a film. When you do this kind of work, it doesn't have to come out every year," said the "Welcome Back" actor.      The content of the finite series was greatly praised by the small screen viewers, but when it comes to other fiction shows with a different storyline, they don't always get a warm welcome. Isn't the audience ready for TV shows beyond 'saas-bahu' dramas?      "They are ready, but we have to give it (shows with different content) again and again. Whatever you do, takes time. I always believe in doing things that challenge me and motivate me... Which I feel passionate about.      "I felt challenged by the show ('24'). I loved the content. I don't care what others think. There's no time for that," said the global star, who refused to take up "an exciting international project" due to his commitment to "24".      The actor, who has featured in Hollywood projects including "Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol", has also acquired the rights of American TV series "Modern Family" and "Prison Break" for Indian TV.      "I just like the way they (people in the West) work, their work culture. The content is strong. There is discipline, professionalism... And that's what I love about them. So whatever is good, why can't I pick it up and learn from them and adapt them," he shared when asked about adapting international shows.      And how different are the two film industries?      "Their budgets are big and technically they are much more advanced where special effects are concerned. For instance, a Disney film like 'The Jungle Book'... everything was done on a computer. Besides, they prep a lot. We (Indian film industry) are also picking up," he said.      (The writer's trip was at the invitation of channel Colors. Natalia Ningthoujam can be contacted at natalia.n@ians.in)      --IANS      nn/rb/bg
Mumbai, June 10 (IANS) Choreographer-filmmaker Farah Khan feels lucky to have a spouse like editor-director Shirish Kunder, who is hands-on their eight-year-old triplets.      In an appearance on the fourth season of "The Tara Sharma" show, hosted by actress Tara Sharma, Farah shared that it's possible for her to step out and have a career because of a husband as supportive as Shirish.      "I don't do it all alone. I can't do it all alone if Shirish is not there... (he's) so hands on. You can't go out and have a career and go for shoots and just leave the children. So you have to have a spouse who is also hands-on," Farah said.      "For two days he hasn't been home and he has been doing his music and the children are lost like, 'who will get our printout for homework, where is dada'. So I just realised how hands-on he is," added the "Om Shanti Om" director.      Farah, who got married to Shirish in 2004, and they had their triplets -- son Czar and daughters Anya and Diva -- four years later.      "It's a tough job to keep them completely non-judgmental at home because the stereotypes mostly come from school, they come from the kids, their friends and what they probably see on television," the 51-year-old said.      "The Tara Sharma show" which will air on June 12 on Star World and Star World HD, will serve as a platform for discussing parenting issues and also highlight important social topics with celebrities giving their views about various issues.          The other guests who will be joining the actress-host of the show will be actors John Abraham, Soha Ali Khan and cricketer Virat Kohli.          --IANS      ks/rb/vm
NEW DELHI: As many as 8.6 lakh people in Punjab - of a total population of 2.77 crore - abuse heroin or other opiods, an AIIMS survey says.      The widely-publicized spat between Udta Punjab producer Anurag Kashyap and Censor Board chief Pahlaj Nihalani has brought attention again to this massive drug problem in the state.      But Deputy CM Sukhbir Badal says: "Some opportunistic non-Punjabis, political parties, and leaders" have painted a "distorted picture of Punjab as a drug haven."      Films are make-believe, sure, but recent findings should give the deputy chief minister some pause.      Alarming statistics      The Supreme Court in November 2015 said that drug dealers and peddlers had "spoiled an entire generation in Punjab."      It's right. A survey in January of ten Punjab districts conducted by the National Drug Dependence Treatment Centre (NDDTC) at AIIMS revealed that 18-35 year olds accounted for 76% of opioid users in Punjab. Opioids are a class of drugs that includes some prescription analgesics, morphine and heroin.      National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data showed that average drug abuse among youth in Punjab in 2013 was 51.6%, a figure that's 18 times higher than the national average.      Heroin, which is primarily smuggled into Punjab from Pakistan - allegedly with support from its spy agency, the Inter-Intelligence Services - accounted for 86.6 % of total opioid consumption in the state . That's worth a staggering Rs. 7,500 crore, the survey added. Moreover, the state's 2.3 lakh opioid abusers spend a total of approximately Rs 20 crores every day on drugs.      Injectible drugs and HIV      The NDDTC survey suggests that the number of injecting drug users in the state is higher than was previously thought. UN reports from 2008 and 2012 also showed the drugs of choice in Punjab were pharmaceutical injectables. This prompted Dr. Atul Ambedkar, the principal author of the study, to say that Punjab risked having to contend with "an explosive epidemic" of HIV-infections.      Indeed, Navreet Singh Kang, Union additional secretary in the Ministry of Family Welfare, said in February 2015 said that upto 21.1 percent of the state's injection drug-users could be HIV-positive.      Drug-fueled crime      NCRB data show that in 2013, Punjab had the highest number of criminals booked under the National Drugs and Psychotropic Substances act. These people were responsible for the production or trafficking of banned substances like opium, cannabis, pseudoephedrine, poppy husk and heroin. LiveMint reported in 2015 that the state accounted for 60% of all illegal drug seizures in India.      With inputs from PTI
Mumbai, Jun 10 () Andhra Pradesh government is planning to add 33 hotels, including major global and domestic brands, in the state at a total investment of Rs 2,400 crore to strengthen tourism development.  "To further strengthen tourism development in the state, Andhra Pradesh is launching 33 hotels offering more than 2,766 rooms with a total investment of Rs 2,400 crore," an Andhra Pradesh Tourism release issued here said.  It said as tourist preference patterns over the years have shown a gradual shift from traditional tourism, with more and more tourists now inclined towards additional entertainment avenues, including water sports, adventure tourism, Andhra Pradesh is also focusing on them.  To cater to this ever-rising group of tourists and to make Andhra Pradesh the most preferred destination, the state is all set to launch a host of water sports and adventure tourism facilities, it said.  In line with the surge in tourist interest in water sports, the state has already introduced facilities like para-sailing, jeep para-sailing, para-motoring, water-skiing, speed boat among others at Bhavani Islands in Vijayawada, it said.  Work is also underway to replicate the same across other key beaches such as Rishikonda, Bheemili, Mangamaripeta, Thotlakonda among others, it added.  "We are extremely proud to announce the launch of a host of water sports and adventure tourism facilities in Andhra Pradesh. This launch will herald a new dimension in tourism in the state," Andhra Pradesh Principal Secretary - Tourism and Culture, Neerabh Kumar Prasad said.  The state is geared up to launch amphibious vehicles in Vijayawada and Rajahmundry, which can operate on both land and water, the release said.  The state is also coming up with sea planes to be functional in Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada and Kakinada to offer Heli tourism, it said.  Site for setting up seaplane jetty has been identified in all the destinations and currently, design work is underway, it said.  State Tourism department Commissioner R P Khajuria said, "Amphibious vehicles and Heli tourism are two most contemporary forms of tourism attractions. We plan to launch them soon and are really upbeat about it. Overall, with the launch of these hosts of water sports and adventure tourism activities, we feel tourism in the state will get a major boost." SM SDL IKA
Mumbai, Jun 10 () With "   Housefull 3" garnering good business at the box office despite mixed reviews, the makers of the franchise are keen to come up with another installment. Produced by Sajid Nadiadwala, the comedy, which released on June 3, stars   Akshay Kumar ,   Abhishek Bachchan , Riteish Deshmukh,   Jacqueline Fernandez and   Nargis Fakhri . When asked about the possibility of "Housefull 4", Nadiadwala told reporters last night, "It is a good franchise. Definitely we will be doing ('Housefull 4') very soon." On the occasion, Akshay said the scripting of a possible "Housefull 4" will take time, as it is not an easy subject to make. "We will sit and talk about it. It will take time. There was a gap of nearly four years between 'Housefull 2' and '3'. The script takes a lot of time. It is not an easy task to assemble everyone in one home, you need a strong reason for that," Akshay said. "So, it is not an easy subject, it is difficult to make. It will take one, one-and-half years to begin," the "Airlift" star said. The film, helmed by   Sajid-Farhad , is the second movie of the director-duo with Akshay after "It's   Entertainment ". Unlike the notion that heroines aren't necessary in the "Housefull" franchise, Akshay said they are needed to complete the script. "It's basically a team work. We all need each other. Even in part three we are in love with them later on and that is why the script gets complete." JUR GK JCH
Mumbai, Jun 10 () Shares of GVK Power & Infrastructure today ended with nearly 16 per cent gains after the company sought shareholders' approval for increasing the maximum limit of loans and guarantees that can be given to other entities.  The stock zoomed 15.91 per cent to settle at Rs 5.61 on BSE. During the day, it surged 19.83 per cent to Rs 5.80.  On NSE, it soared 15.46 per cent to close at Rs 5.60.  In terms of volume, 25.30 lakh shares of the company were traded at BSE and over one crore shares changed hands at NSE during the day.  GVK Power & Infra has sought shareholders' approval for increasing the maximum limit of loans and guarantees that can be given to other entities to Rs 15,000 crore from the current limit of Rs 10,000 crore.  In a BSE filing yesterday, the company said it has sought approval of the shareholders through postal ballot for increasing the existing "overall limits by Rs 5,000 crore for making investments/giving loans/guarantees/providing securities in terms of Sec 186 of the Companies Act, 2013, read with Rule 13 of Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) Rules, 2014."  Section 186 pertains to certain transactions entered into by a company directly or indirectly. These include loans given to any person or other body corporate and guarantee or security provided in connection with a loan to any entity.  The last date for voting on the postal ballot is July 7, the filing added. SUM PRB ABI
Mumbai, Jun 10 () Shares of Visa Steel Ltd (VSL) today surged 20 per cent after the company said it will seek shareholders' approval for the merger of its JV firm Visa Bao Ltd (VBL) in an attempt to optimise costs and secure availability of resources for its ferrochrome business.  The stock zoomed 20 per cent to Rs 16.38 - its highest trading permissible limit - for the day on BSE.  On NSE, it soared 19.7 per cent to touch the upper circuit limit of Rs 16.40.  VBL is a joint venture between VSL and Baosteel of China, with VSL holding 65 per cent stake.  The firm will hold a postal ballot soon to seek shareholders' approval for the proposal and the results are expected next month.  In order to have sustainable growth, it is necessary for any ferrochrome producer to have captive chrome ore mine or a captive power plant, if not both, VSL had said in a regulatory filing yesterday.  "Hence, with a view to achieving competitive advantage to ensure availability of chrome ore and concentrates and optimise the utilisation of the power plant capacity, it is intended to consolidate the ferrochrome business of VSL and VBL by amalgamating VBL with VSL," it added.  Explaining the rationale behind the merger, the firm said at present, VSL has two submerged arc furnaces for production of 60,000 tonnes per annum (TPA) of ferrochrome and has a 75 MW captive power plant, with infrastructure to scale this up to 1.20 lakh TPA. SUM SA
AHMEDABAD: A fully grown lioness was killed in Junagadh district after getting trapped in a barbed wire when it tried to enter a farm house, forest officials said today. The incident took place at Vokala village in Dungar (north) range of Junagadh forest area last night when the lioness got ensnared in a wire fencing set up at a farm and died after getting fatally hurt in the abdomen, Chief Conservator of Forest, Junagadh S K Mehta told . The officials obtained her body after being informed by one Rakesh Domadia, whose farm is located near the site where the incident took place, he said. According to the officer, the body was sent to the forensic science laboratory and a post-mortem report was awaited. Farm owners in the area generally set up such barbed fencing to avoid blue bull, wild boar and other animals from crossing over to the farm land and destroy standing crops.
India's student population in the 5-19 years age group has increased by 30% between 2001 and 2011 but the increases are unevenly distributed across religious communities, with lagging sections catching up. Among Muslims, the number of students zoomed by 44%, and within that, among girls by a staggering 53%. As a result, students now constitute 63% of this age group among Muslims. This is still behind the 73% among Hindus. Jains with 88% have the highest student ratio in the 5-19 age bracket, followed by Christians.In the 20-29 years age group, the share of persons seeking work was 20% for the country as a whole. Among Christian youth, unemployment was strikingly higher at 26%. This is worrying because Christians were the highest educated community in the last census, with 71% of the 5-19 years age group studying. In the latest census, their student population reached 80% of the age group.Details of student populations and employment among various religious communities are available in the freshly-released census data.Religious communities that had embraced education more widely in the past, like the Christians, Sikhs, and Jains, understandably show much smaller changes since the last census in 2001. In fact, among Jains, there is a 10% decline in the number of students.
BOSTON: Scientists have found that the hair-like nanoscale filamentson some bacteria have electrical conductivity comparable to that of copper, an advance that may lead to low-cost, non-toxic, biological components for lightweight electronics.   Although proteins are usually electrically insulating, hair-like nanoscale filaments (called pili) on the surface of Geobacter bacteria exhibit metallic-like conductivity.   To understand why pili are conductive, scientists from the University of Massachusettsand Brookhaven National Laboratoryin the US used X-ray diffraction to analyse the structure of the filaments.   They found that the electronic arrangement and the small molecular separation distances (about 0.3 nanometres) give the pili an electrical conductivity comparable to that of copper.   Enhance pili's electrical conductivity through genetic engineering could be used to construct low-cost, non-toxic, nanoscale, biological sources of electricity for light-weight electronics and for bioremediation, researchers said.   Direct measurement of multiple physical properties of Geobacter sulfurreducens pili have demonstrated that they possess metallic-like conductivity, but several studies have suggested that this conductivity is unlikely based on the structures of the G sulfurreducenspilus predicted from homology models.   Researchers examined the pili with synchrotron X-ray microdiffraction and rocking-curve X-ray diffraction.   Both techniques showed a periodic 0.32-nanometre spacing in G sulfurreducens pili. This was missing in the pili of strain Aro5, which lack key aromatic acids required for conductivity.   The intensity of the 0.32-nanometre peak increased 100-fold when the pH was shifted from 10.5 to 2, corresponding with a previously reported 100-fold increase in pilus conductivity with this pH change.   These results suggest a clear structure-function correlation for metallic-like conductivity that can be attributed to overlapping orbitals of aromatic amino acids.   A homology model of the G sulfurreducens pilus predicted that aromatic amino acids in it are packed within 0.3 to 0.4 nanometre, consistent with the experimental results.   Thus, the predictions of homology modelling are highly sensitive to assumptions inherent in the model construction.   The experimental results further support the concept that the pili of G sulfurreducens represent a novel class of electronically functional proteins in which aromatic amino acids promote long-distance electron transport.   The mechanism for long-range electron transport along the conductive pili of G sulfurreducens is of interest because these "microbial nanowires" are important in biogeochemical cycling as well as applications in bioenergy and bioelectronics.   The findings are expected to be useful in the design of novel bioelectronic materials, researchers said.
New Delhi, Jun 10 () An untitled landscape painted by Amrita Sher-Gill sold for Rs 4.75 crores (USD 720,000) at Saffronart's online auction, which fetched a total sales of Rs 20.65 crores (USD 3.12 million), auctioneers said today.  Sher-Gil's Untitled (Zebegeny Landscape) led the sale against a pre-sale estimate of Rs 3.9 crores to Rs 5.2 crores (USD 600,000 800,000).  Sher-Gil was the country's foremost woman artist, whose brief career spanning just over a decade had a deep impact on Indian art. Made in 1931, the landscape was painted during a summer holiday she spent in the Hungarian village of Zebegeny on the banks of the Danube.  An Untitled work (after Titian's Venus of Urbino and Manet's Olympia) by F N Souza sold for Rs 1.22 crores (USD 186,000) compared to a pre-sale estimate of Rs 1.1 -1.3 crores (USD 170,000 200,000).  Subodh Gupta's stainless steel installation, sold for Rs 1.10 crores (USD 168,000), against an initial estimate of Rs 99 lakhs to Rs 1.3 crores (USD 150,000 - 200,000).  S H Raza's 'Horizon', sold for over Rs 1 crore (USD 153,000) against an estimate of Rs 66 lakhs to Rs 99 lakhs (USD 100,000 150,000).  Nearly 24 per cent of the lots sold above their upper estimates.  Two paintings by Ghulam Rasool Santosh almost tripled their upper estimates of Rs 5.28 lakhs (USD 8,000) and Rs 3.3 lakhs (USD 5,000) to fetch winning bids of Rs 14.65 lakhs (USD 22,212) and Rs 10.89 lakhs (USD 16,500) respectively.  K K Hebbar's 1959 painting 'Tile Factory', almost doubled its upper estimate of Rs 23 lakhs (USD 35,000), selling for Rs 40.78 lakhs (USD 61,800).  Lot 57, Biren De's 1968 oil on canvas 'The Moment', also tripled its upper estimate of Rs 7.92 lakhs (USD 12,000) fetching a winning bid of Rs 24.9 lakhs (USD 37,800).  Among the contemporary Indian artists, there was strong demand for works by Sudarshan Shetty and Chintan Upadhyay. Shetty's 2005 acrylic on canvas, sold at RS 14.72 lakhs (USD 22,309) against a pre-sale estimate of Rs 6 - Rs 8 lakhs (USD 9,095 12,125).  "We were delighted to see very active international bidding, including bids placed via our mobile platform. There were many rare pieces with unusual history and at various attractive price points, so we are very gratified by the broad appeal it generated," Hugo Weihe, CEO, Saffronart said. ANS
New Delhi, June 10 (IANS) Amid reports that Home Minister Rajnath Singh may be the BJP's chief ministerial candidate in Uttar Pradesh, two former party MPs on Friday accused the former chief minister of dividing the backward community to help the state's now ruling Samajwadi Party (SP).      "The activities of Rajnath Singh are anti-backward and he is trying to divide the community. The party leadership should take cognizance of this before deciding anything," former Azamgarh MP Ramakant Yadav told IANS.      He said Rajnath Singh's thinking was anti-backward and this would benefit the SP.      "Until the party rejects his idea of quota within quota, we will keep opposing it. His idea is not in the party's interest. It will benefit the SP," said Ramakant Yadav, who fought against SP chief Mulayam Singh Yadav in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls.      "The backward community was united during the Lok Sabha polls. This was the reason we got 71 (of the 80) seats in the state," Ramakant Yadav added.      Two other seats were won by a BJP ally, Apna Dal. The Congress won only two seats and the SP five. The Bahujan Samaj Party drew a blank.      Addressing a social justice meet at Mau in Uttar Pradesh, Rajnath Singh said on Thursday that a quota within quota system would be implemented in the state again if the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) came to power.      "The state and the nation can't develop well without the progress of the most backward castes. To ensure their growth, they need a separate quota. The benefits of reservation meant for Scheduled Castes and other backward classes should not be confined to a few castes only," Rajnath Singh said.      The apprehensions expressed by Ramakant Yadav, a four-time former MP and four-time former state legislator, is seen as his opposition to Rajnath Singh, tipped to be the BJP's chief ministerial candidate in Uttar Pradesh. The elections are due next year.      On Thursday, Rajnath Singh denied he was in the contention. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said he would extend "his full support" to whoever was named for the post.      Meanwhile, another former party MP, Daroga Prasad Saroj, also criticised Rajnath Singh's idea of quota within quota.      "If there is quota within quota, the country will get divided. The country can't move ahead. If the party wants this I have no objections as I am ready to abide by the party decisions," Saroj told IANS.      --IANS      bns/mr

NEW DELHI: Priyanka Chopra's granny's last wish remained unfulfilled as the Church, where she was baptised, did not allow her burial and the actress terms it to be "awful." "The act of church was awful. But we should not concentrate on it. Rather we should look that we lost a family member," said Priyanka Chopra, speaking to reporters in Patna. The authorities at the Kumarakom Parish in Kerala refused to let the burial of Mary John Akhouri take place as she was married to a Hindu. Hence the 33-year-old actress' grandmother had to be buried in an unkept graveyard in Kerala on Sunday.
Mumbai, June 10 (IANS) Chandrasekhar Reddy's directorial docu-feature "Fireflies in the Abyss", about children working in coal mines, will be released in India on July 1 by Drishyam Films.      The docu-feature, which has been shown across various film festivals, talks about children especially working in coal mines in the Jaintia Hills of Northeast India.      The 88-minute feature captures the dream of an 11-year-old boy who attempts to fight his way out of the rat-hole of coal mines, to put himself in school. It features Nishant Rai, Raj Rai and Suraj Subba.          "After travelling the world and screening at some of the most prestigious film festivals, I have become certain of one thing - every kind of audience responds to the film with tremendous emotion and enthusiasm.      "This is what has given me the confidence to reach out to a wider Indian audience. To have the support and expertise of Drishyam Films in this effort, I believe, gives the film the best possible chance to succeed," Reddy said in a statement.      Shiladitya Bora, CEO, Drishyam Films, said that "documentaries as a cultural medium hasn't been fully explored in India."      "We at Drishyam want to make it a sustainable endeavour. Fireflies in the Abyss is a powerful and award-winning film, navigating a difficult subject matter with a light touch, and we are sure it will make its mark on the silver screen," Bora said.          "Fireflies in the Abyss" had its world premiere at the Busan International Film Festival last year and the India premiere at the Mumbai International Film Festival this year, winning the Golden Conch award for Best Documentary Feature Film and the Best Cinematography in the National Competition category.      It was also a part of the market section of the Jio MAMI Mumbai Film Festival.      --IANS      ks/rb/bg
WASHINGTON: The US has asked Pakistan to ensure that its territory is not used for planning attacks in India, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi said terrorism is being "incubated in India's neighbourhood".      "This is one of the steps that the US is encouraging Pakistan to do for the improvement of its relations with India," a state department spokesman said on Thursday.      "We believe that Pakistan and India stand to benefit from practical cooperation and encourage direct dialogue aimed at increasing cooperation and reducing tensions," state department deputy spokesman Mark Toner said.      "And that includes steps by Pakistan to ensure that its territory is not used to plan attacks in India and that Pakistan takes steps to address or to go after, I think, all the terrorist groups that are currently using its territory," Toner said.      "That continues to be an area of collaboration and cooperation that we pursue with Pakistan is its counterterrorism operations," he said in response to a question.      Responding to a question, Toner said Pakistan was one of the issues discussed  between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Barack Obama  .      "Certainly that was one of the discussions, frankly, that was raised at the - or one of the issues, frankly, that was raised in discussions with Prime Minister Modi. They talked about a wide range of regional issues, in fact," he said.      "Our bilateral relations with India and Pakistan are separate and stand on their own merits, and so I don't think we - it's not prudent for us to view our security cooperation in the region in kind of a zero-sum game - or zero-sum terms, rather.      "I think it's important for the countries of the region that they all have constructive security relationships with each other. And that's Pakistan, that's India, and it's also Afghanistan," Toner said.      In his address to the joint sitting of US Congress here, Modi had said terrorism has to be fought with "one voice" as he commended the American Parliament for sending out a clear message by refusing to "reward" those who preach and practice terrorism for political gains, an apparent reference to the blocking of sale of 8 F-16 fighter jets to Pakistan.      Read this story in Hindi

New Delhi, Jun 10 () Eager to assure himself an extra shot at Olympic qualification, former World Championship bronze-medallist Vikas Krishan (75kg) will take on Kenya's Nickson Abaka in an International Boxing Association (AIBA) Pro Boxing fight night here tomorrow.  The world No.6, who was an Asian Games gold-medallist, will fight it out in a six-rounder at a Noida mall. The bout is being conducted under the aegis of the International Boxing Association (AIBA) and the Professional Boxing Organization of India (PBOI).  "This is a great opportunity for me and I will make the most of it," said Vikas ahead of the bout, within hours after which he would be leaving for an Olympic Qualifying Tournament in Azerbaijan with a 10-member team.  AIBA Pro Boxing's Managing Director Mirko Wolf said the bout is the world body's way of extending a helping hand to India at a time when the country is struggling on the administrative front in the absence of a national federation.  "India has huge potential and we know this. At this time, we thought what is it that we can do to help? That's how APB was brought here. I know Vikas, he is a brilliant boxer and this bout gives him a chance to be eligible for the Olympic qualifiers. We thought a talented boxer like him deserves a chance, so we are here," Wolf told .  "By bringing AIBA Pro Boxing to India, we are taking boxing to a new level in India, he added.  Vikas already fought one pro contest earlier this year in Uzbekistan.  By fighting tomorrow, Vikas would be eligible to compete in the final Olympic Qualifiers in Venezuela and the Indian said he would definitely make the trip even if he books his berth in the Azerbaijan event.  "Going to Venezuela would be good for exposure. It will help me test myself against stronger guys. So I would be keen to go even if I qualify in Azerbaijan," Vikas said.  Obaka, who is a former World Military Games bronze-medallist, said the Indian should brace up for a tough contest.  "I have been in India before, it's always great to be here. I will give my best tomorrow and I can promise that Vikas won't have it easy," he said.  The PBOI is being aided by Delhi Boxing Association chief Rohit Jain in the conduct of the bout. PM AT AT
Mumbai, June 10 (IANS) The Bombay High Court on Friday pulled up the censor board for insisting on "censoring" films instead of "certifying" them and asked why it was not banning "Udta Punjab" if the movie indeed glorified drugs.      A divison bench comprising Justice S.C. Dharmadhikari and Justice Shalini Phansalkar-Joshi asked the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) to leave it to viewers to decide whether the film was defaming a state as the modern audiences were a mature lot.      The judges noted that all this was giving unnecessary publicity to the film and said people must be allowed to see what they want on television or cinema as "everybody has a choice". The CBFC must stick to certifying instead of censoring films, they said.      After completing the second day's hearing on a plea filed by "Udta Punjab" co-producers challenging the cuts recommended by CBFC, the judges said they would pronounce their verdict on June 13.      Earlier, the CBFC told the court that some of the scenes recommended for deletion in the film were "very vulgar" and the lyrics used in the songs were "offensive".      Citing examples, CBFC lawyer Advait Sethna said one dialogue, "zameen banjar toh aulad kanjar", was abusive and the word "kanjar" was used in an objectionable manner.      To this, the court pointed out that films do not run on such content and there must be a storyline and the modern audiences were mature enough.      Sethna further argued that the word "kanjar" showed the state in a poor light as Punjab was a highly productive state. He added that a dog in the film was named 'Jackie Chan'.      On Thursday, the court had noted that the film wants to save people from drugs and was not "made with a view to malign the state or its people".      Co-produced by Anurag Kashyap, "Udta Punjab" stars Shahid Kapoor, Alia Bhatt, Kareena Kapoor Khan and Diljit Dosanjh and is about the drug menace in Punjab.      Kashyap accused CBFC chairman Pahlaj Nihalani of bullying and deliberately not certifying the film slated for release on June 17.      While the CBFC at one point demanded 89 cuts in the film, its Revising Committee brought down the number to 13.      Among the scenes the CBFC wants to be cut is one showing Shahid Kapoor urinating publicly during a song sequence. This the film makers don't mind chopping.      The row over "Udta Punjab" took a new turn after Nihalani suggested that Kashyap may have taken money from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) to produce the movie ahead of Punjab elections due next year.      --IANS      qn/mr/rb
NEW DELHI: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday questioned Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh for the second consecutive day in connection with an alleged disproportionate assets case against him.Singh arrived at agency headquarters at around 11 am for the second round of questioning. He was grilled by CBI for over seven hours on Thursday. Agency sources had claimed that he failed to offer any explanation when confronted with "evidence" against him."CBI has a fool proof case against him, his associates and partners in criminal conspiracy regarding the assets acquired in the name of his children and wife," an official had said.The agency had initiated an inquiry which had allegedly showed that Singh, while serving as Union Minister during 2009-2012 (UPA rule), had accumulated assets worth Rs 6.03 crore (approx) in his name and in the name of his family members, which were found to be disproportionate to his known sources of income, CBI has said.The FIR filed with a designated court in Delhi under the Prevention of Corruption Act, named Singh, his wife Pratibha Singh, LIC agent Anand Chauhan and owner of Universal Apple Associates Limited Chunni Lal Chauhan.The allegations have been strongly refuted by Singh.In a statement, CBI spokesperson had alleged that Singh had invested his unaccounted income in LIC policies in his name and in the name of his wife and other family members through a private person by showing the same as agricultural income."This was done by creation of MoU purportedly dated June 15, 2008 for maintenance of an apple orchard, with the said private person (Chauhan) for a period of three years."The private person had allegedly deposited Rs five crore cash (approx) in his own bank account and debited the same through cheques for purchasing various LIC policies in their names," CBI had said.It had said Singh allegedly attempted to legitimize the same as agricultural income by filing revised Income Tax Returns in 2012."The agricultural income as claimed by him in his revised ITRs was not found to be tenable. The then Union Minister had allegedly accumulated other assets disproportionate to known sources of income," CBI has alleged.
Mumbai (Maharashtra), June 10 (ANI-Businesswire India): Ruchi Soya Industries Limited (Ruchi Soya), India's leading Agri-FMCG company today announced that it has secured an approval from the Government of Karnataka to set up multiple new facilities at Dakshina Kannada in the food and agri-business sector. The company received the clearance from State Level Single Window Clearance Committee (SLSWCC) meeting held recently.  Ruchi Soya had entered into a MoU with the state of Karnataka in November 2015 for setting up these facilities. The company will establish a complete and integrated value chain which will not only benefit the farmers but also agricultural workers. Ruchi Soya will set up multi-location palm fruit & Kernel processing units producing edible oil, palm kernel cake, palm kernel oil and solar power. The units will be set up at multiple locations in Dakshina Kannada district. The company will also set up a nursery to produce high-yielding varieties of plant species and creating awareness about oil palm cultivation. The new facilities, when ready, will offer employment to over 17,000 people including farmers, contract farming and agricultural workers.  Mr. Dinesh Shahra - Founder and Managing Director, Ruchi Soya Industries Limited said, "We are pleased to receive clearance from the Government of Karnataka towards our initiative in reducing the dependency of the country on imports for its edible oil needs. This proposed new integrated platform is expected to have significant value for both the Indian farmer, in terms of efficient handling of produce and sales realization, as well as for the Indian consumer, who will stand to gain from an increased range of high quality finished products."  Ruchi Soya's association with the state of Karnataka dates back to the year 1998 when one of its group companies started its business with an investment of 80 million INR in Mangalore (Dakshina Kannada) to install a liquid handling & storage terminal with a capacity of 17500 MT. The company further invested INR 2 Billion from 2001-2011 and set up a state-of-art world class Edible Oil Refinery plant in Mangalore with a capacity of 1400 MT per day.  Ruchi Soya is among the pioneers of oil palm plantations in the country and has been encouraging farmers to expand the domestic palm plantation. Currently, the company has procurement rights in palm planted area of over 2, 00,000 hectares; including 4000 hectares in Karnataka.(ANI-Businesswire India)
Mumbai (Maharashtra), June 10, (ANI): The Bombay High Court, which is presently hearing a case against Shahid Kapoor starrer 'Udta Punjab', today told the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) that multiplex audience are mature enough and added that the people should be allowed to see the film as everybody has a choice.  'Udta Punjab' hearing - Developments so far:  1. CBFC lawyer informs the court that the words used in the songs of the film are very offensive.  2. The censor board says that scenes in this movie which we have asked to cut are very vulgar.  3. The censor board says the dialogue "zameen banjar to aulaad kanjar" is also very abusive. Punjab is an "upjau" state.  4. The censor board says there is a dog which has been named as Jackie Chan, which is also objectionable.  5. Court said, All this is giving unnecessary publicity to the film  6. Court said, Multiplex audience are mature enough. Whether it is TV or cinema, let the people see it. Everybody has a choice  The order on the same has been reserved till 5 p.m. today whereas the trial proceeding has been adjourned till July 8. (ANI)
Mumbai, Jun 10 () Ruchi Soya Industries today said it has received approval from the Karnataka government to set up multiple new facilities in the food and agri-business sector in Dakshina Kannada district.  The company received the clearance from State Level Single Window Clearance Committee (SLSWCC) recently, Ruchi Soya said in a statement here.  "The proposed new integrated platform is expected to have significant value for both the Indian farmer, in terms of efficient handling of produce and sales realisation, as well as for the Indian consumer, who will stand to gain from an increased range of high quality finished products," Ruchi Soya Founder and Managing Director Dinesh Shahra said.  Ruchi Soya had entered into an agreement with Karnataka government in November 2015, for setting up these facilities.  The company will establish a complete and integrated value chain.  Ruchi Soya will set up multi-location palm fruit and kernel processing units producing edible oil, palm kernel cake, palm kernel oil and solar power in Dakshina Kannada district.  The company will also set up a nursery to produce high-yielding varieties of plant species and creating awareness about oil palm cultivation.  The new facilities will offer employment to over 17,000 people including farmers, contract farming and agricultural workers.  Earlier, in 1998, one of Ruchi Soya's group companies started business in Karnataka with an investment of Rs 80 million in Mangalore (Dakshina Kannada) to install a liquid handling and storage terminal with a capacity of 17,500 tonne.  The company further invested Rs 2 billion from 2001-2011 and set up a edible oil refinery plant in Mangalore with a capacity of 1,400 tonne per day.  Currently, Ruchi Soya has procurement rights in palm planted area of over 2,00,000 hectares, including 4,000 hectares in Karnataka. SM DK ABI RYS
Mumbai, Jun 10 () In sharp observations, the Bombay High Court today asked the Censor Board not be overly-critical so that creative people can grow in the film industry and, at the same time, said makers of "Udta Punjab" should tone down expletives and vulgar scenes as these alone cannot make a film work.  A division bench of Justices S C Dharmadhikari and Shalini Phansalkar-Joshi said it will pass orders in the case on June 13 after it concluded hearing arguments on the petition filed by Phantom Films, producer of "Udta Punjab", against an order of the revising committee of the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) that suggested changes in the film.  The court was critical of the CBFC's direction to the makers to delete any reference made to Punjab in the film saying "the crux of the film will be lost" and added that people should be given the choice to view what they want.  In stinging observations against the Board, the court noted, "If the movie (Udta Punjab) is glorifying use of drugs then ban the entire movie."  "The censor board need not be so critical also as we want creative people to survive and grow in the film industry," the court observed while referring to certain scenes in the film for which the board has suggested changes.  Disapproving of the CBFC's direction to delete and cut references to "Punjab" in the film, the judges said "from every dialogue and scene of the film if reference to Punjab will have to be deleted then the crux of the film will be lost.  "If the idea of the maker is to be critical of a place or person then that place or person will have to be shown," the bench said.  Noting that the use of expletives and cuss words does not decide the success of the movie, it said, "Today's generation is very direct open and more mature. No film runs because of the use of cuss words."  "Most movies are failing in the multiplexes because the audience is bored with this over-dose. The content of the movie matters. A creative mind will know the folly of including so much cuss words in the movie. Let them (filmmakers) learn from their mistakes," Justice Dharmadhikari said.  "You (CBFC) have to give people the choice to view what they want. In the house, a person uses the remote to switch on or off the television. Similarly let the public decide whether they want to see the movie or not. Use of expletives will not take the movie anywhere. Today's generation is not going to be impressed with all this. The content needs to be strong," the court said.  "In this age only those movies having a strong content and script line do well and just using expletives will not work for the movie, and hence the CBFC need not be overly critical." More. SP SVS GK NM RT
Mumbai, Jun 10 ()   Kareena Kapoor Khan feels it is important for actors to do films on issues prevalent in the society and is hopeful that the message conveyed in her upcoming movie "   Udta Punjab " will come out effectively on screen. The Abhishek Chaubey-directed "Udta Punjab", starring Shahid Kapoor, Alia Bhatt, Diljit Dosanjh and Kareena, deals with the issue of drugs abuse in the state of Punjab. Presently, the filmmakers are fighting a battle against the censor board, which has raised several objections over use of various words and language in the film. When asked about the ongoing censorship issues, Kareena said, "I have full faith in the film, full faith in   Abhishek Chaubey (director) and full faith in our fans. There are big stars in the film and all of them have a huge fan base," Kareena told reporters here at an event last night. "The reason I did 'Udta Punjab' is because there is no small or big role. And even if my role is a special one in the film, if we actors don't do these kinds of films, the message (about drug menace) will never be out," she said. In the film, Shahid essays the role of a Punjabi rockstar, Alia Bhatt is a migrant from Bihar, Kareena plays a doctor while Punjabi star Diljit Dosanjh enacts a tough cop. "I have done many films in the past where I have played pivotal roles, but I chose to be a part of this film ('Udta Punjab') because it is important that this message gets told, which am sure is going to come on screen," Kareena said. The Anurag Kashyap-Ekta Kapoorproduced film is scheduled to release on June 17. KKP GK JCH
New Delhi, June 10 () Logistics firm Flywheel today said it will invest Rs 120 crore for expansion and has appointed consulting firm PwC to advise on private equity infusion.  "Flywheel will invest Rs 120 crore over the next two years for expanding capacities, thereby breaking into the top three companies offering container transportation," the company said in a statement.  Delhi-based Flywheel Logistics has also appointed PwC India to advise on the deal structure and on private equity infusion.  "Flywheel will be able to raise USD 20 million in its first round of funding through participation from private equity," it said.  It will be used to fund the expansion plans for the company's container capacities across the network as well as warehouse infrastructure.  Flywheel CEO Anil Syal said" "In a largely fragmented market of domestic surface transport, we see a huge opportunity which is untapped. With a unique service model and high service standards, we are confident of growing much faster over the next three years. Being a young company, we have managed to use a very strong technology-base to be able offer our clients sophisticated and transparent service. This makes Flywheel more dependable to our clients"  The firm is a family-owned venture led by founder and CEO Syal and operates in domestic container transportation and warehousing business with a network in 18 states operating 160 daily departures on 60 national routes with 750 strong fleet of containers.  "Besides this, Flywheel operates seven yards across India and reaches 350 destinations countrywide. The full container load network operates on a hub-and-spoke model.  In warehousing, Flywheel Logistics has presence in 21 states with over one million sq ft of warehousing space. NAM JM BAL ABK
New Delhi, Jun 10 () The Supreme Court today stayed a resolution issued by Bar Council of India (BCI) that had made it mandatory for Advocates-on-Record (AoRs) to undergo its ongoing verification drive to check professional credentials of practicing lawyers.  BCI, the apex bar body, has undertaken a verification drive to weed out law practitioners with fake law degrees and done away with the earlier clause that had granted exemption to AoRs from filling up a verification form under the BCI's Certificate of Practice Rules, 2015.  AoRs are those lawyers who clear qualifying examination conducted by the apex court and are entitled to appear and sign petitions and documents in the top court.  They were opposing the BCI resolution on the grounds including that they have become AoRs with the nod of the apex court and their details were there on the Supreme Court site.  "No effect should be given to the (BCI) resolution. Let the matter be heard on June 30," a vacation bench comprising Justices P C Ghose and Amitava Roy said and allowed the Supreme Court Advocate-on-Record Association (SCAORA) to be a party to the ongoing lis (suit) on the issue.  At the outset, the bench asked A K Prasad, representing the BCI, as to how the bar body was empowered to amend the rules framed under the law by passing a resolution.  "The question is, can you (BCI) amend the rules by way of a resolution," it said. However, the court then left it to be decided by the bench concerned after the summer vacation.  The BCI's ongoing verification drive is under challenge before various high courts in the country.  The SCAORA had yesterday moved the apex court seeking urgent hearing of its plea that its members should not be subjected to the BCI verification drive as their records were already with the court.  The SCAORA had told the bench that BCI had a practice not to subject designated senior advocates and Advocates-on- Records (AoRs) to verification.  The lawyers body had said that designated senior advocates and AORs were earlier exempted from the verification process but the BCI had last year amended rules and brought AORs in the bracket of common lawyers. (More) MNL SJK ARC
NEW DELHI: Five men were on Friday sentenced to life imprisonment by a Delhi court for gangraping a 52-year-old Danish woman at knife-point near the New Delhi railway station two years ago.      Additional Sessions Judge Ramesh Kumar awarded the jail term to convicts Mahender alias Ganja (25), Mohd Raja (25), Raju (23), Arjun (21) and Raju Chakka (30).      "For the offence of section 376 D IPC, all the convicts are sentenced to life imprisonment," the judge said while pronouncing the order.      The court also imposed a fine of Rs 83,000 each on Raju and Raju Chakka, Rs 93,000 each on Mahender and Mohd Raja and Rs 1,03,000 on Arjun respectively.      The court has held these five men guilty for the offences under IPC sections 376 (D) (gang rape), 395 (dacoity), 366 (kidnapping), 342 (wrongful confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention).      Besides sentencing these convicts for the offence of gangrape, the court also awarded varying jail terms to them for other offences for which they were held guilty.      According to the police, the nine persons, all vagabonds, had robbed and gangraped the Danish tourist at knife-point on the night of January 14, 2014, after leading her to a secluded spot close to the Divisional Railway Officers' Club near the railway station.      The sixth accused, 56-year-old Shyam Lal had died in February this year and proceedings against him were abated.      Three other accused in the case are juveniles and inquiry against them is in progress before the Juvenile Justice Board.      Before commencement of proceedings today, the convicts were taken out of the courtroom and were frisked by the police on the direction of the judge.      Special Public Prosecutor Atul Shrivastava had sought maximum punishment for the convicts ie. imprisonment till the remainder of natural life, saying the crime was committed in a barbaric and inhuman manner.      Legal aid counsel Dinesh Sharma, who represented the convicts, had sought leniency for them saying they belong to poor background.      The victim had come here on January 1, 2014, and stayed for a couple of days before leaving for Agra. After visiting several places, she returned to Delhi on January 13, 2014, and stayed in a hotel in Paharganj near the station.      The next day when she was returning to her hotel, she lost her way and had asked one of the accused for directions when the men waylaid and gangraped her.      During the trial, the accused had claimed innocence.
New Delhi, June 10 (IANS) As broadband usage expands in India, convenience will be the main driver for online shopping after 2019, as opposed to pricing being the main issue today, and eventually help e-commerce firms make money, says Morgan Stanley.      "Internet adoption is a recent phenomenon in India with under 70 per cent of the total Internet users having fewer than five years of experience on it," the merchant banker's research arm said in its latest report.      "As per our AlphaWise Survey in late 2015, 70-75 per cent of users with fewer than two years of history on the Internet were attracted to online shopping due to attractive prices," it said.      "But 2019 is the year when convenience could trump pricing within Indian online shoppers."      Morgan Stanley said the more mature users valued the convenience factor of online shopping, and that their survey had shown this factor to be outstripping pricing as a key value proposition for users with over five years of Net history.      The financial services company predicted that the proportion of Net users with less than five years of usage history will stay high at over 70 per cent for the next couple of years, implying pricing could be of paramount importance to them.      "But by 2019 and beyond, more than 40 per cent of India's Internet user base would have been using the Internet for over five years, and that is when convenience is likely to take over.      "That is also when e-commerce companies may start seeing an improvement in pricing metrics."      --IANS      ap/py/bg
Mumbai, June 10 (IANS) Actor Varun Sharma, whose mother was a fine arts teacher at a college in Jalandhar, has decided to extend financial help to the families of two retired teachers for a better life.      "Being a teacher is not an easy job and it's sad that they have to subsist on such small pensions after working so hard. A few of my childhood friends and I have pledged to support two families of retired teachers in Punjab. We will sort out their monthly expenses," Varun, best known for his roles in films like "Fukrey", "Dolly Ki Doli" and "Dilwale", said in a statement.      "At an age when they should relax, they are forced to do odd jobs like baby-sitting. All I am trying to do is to help them and spread awareness about the problem," Varun added.          Varun said he likes to be with elders and enjoys talking to them about their life experiences.      "There is so much to learn from them," he said.      Varun's mother retired last year after 38 years of service and she now lives with him in Mumbai.      "She doesn't say much, but she appreciates my decision (of being an actor). I know she is proud of me," added Varun, who will be next seen in Dinesh Vijan's "Raabta".      --IANS      sas/rb/vt
KOLKATA: In a heartbreaking incident, a female rhino was gored to death by two bull rhinos in Jaldapara National Park on Wednesday, after she rebuffed their sexual overtures.      "This is one of the rarest moments in the history of Indian forests. We are very surprised and worried," said Assistant Wildlife Conservator Bimal Debnath.      The female, which had lost her calf a few days prior to the attack, was wandering alone in the the Kodalbasti CC Line of the park. She was spotted by two males, who attempted to court her.    However, she spurned their advances.      The two males then began to fight over her, and sustained minor injuries.      Then - inexplicably - the two bulls abandoned their duel and approached the female together. When she continued to avoid them, the enraged pair began attacking her. They rained blows on her hide with their horns, and continued to assault the female even she tried to take cover. Blood began to spurt from the many wounds on her body.      Forest guards who noticed the attack attempted to break up the trio by firing shots into the air, but to no avail. The males persisted in their ruthless onslaught for three hours.      Grievously wounded, the female could no longer stand. Her assailants were relentless - the continued to kick her even as she lay on the ground.      Her ordeal was to end in some time, when she had a cardiac attack and breathed her last. The males continued to stand their ground beside her corpse. It wasn't until Thursday morning that forest guards were able to recover her body, and conduct post-mortem analyses.      Read this story in Bengali.      Content courtesy: Ei Samay
NEW DELHI: A city court on Friday handed down life imprisonment till death to the five convicts in the sensational gangrape and kidnapping case of a 52-year-old Danish woman. Awarding the maximum penalty to the five men in the 2014 case, additional sessions judge Ramesh Kumar said that the convicts deserved no leniency for their barbaric act.      On June 6, the court had convicted the five men for the offences under sections 376 D (gang rape), 395 (dacoity), 366 (kidnapping), 342 (wrongful confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation and 34 (common intention) of the IPC.      The five convicts are Mahender alias Ganja (27), Mohd Raja (23), Raju (24), Arjun (22) and Raju Chakka (23) who all were present in the court. There was another accused in the case, 56-year-old Shyam Lal, but he died during the trial and proceedings against him were abated. Three other accused in the case are juveniles and the inquiry against them is in progress before the Juvenile Justice Board.      Earlier, the prosecution had sought maximum penalty for the five convicts, saying the men deserved no leniency for their "barbaric" crime adding, that the crime also ruined the reputation of the country. The counsel for the convicts, on the other hand, had pleaded for a leniency for the convicts on grounds of their family responsibilities and young age, saying they could be reformed.      According to the prosecution, the accused, all vagabonds, had robbed and gangraped the Danish tourist at knife-point on the night of January 14, 2014, after leading her to a secluded spot close to the Divisional Railway Officers' Club near the Railway Station.
New Delhi, June 10 (ANI): A Delhi court on Friday awarded life imprisonment to five convicts accused in the 2014 Danish woman gang rape case.      The Delhi Police had yesterday sought maximum punishment for five convicts involved in the gang-rape of a 52-year-old Danish woman.      The court had on Monday held the five accused guilty in the case.      All five adult accused namely Mahendra alias Ganja (24), Mohd Raja (22), Raju (23), Arjun (21) and Raju Chakka (22) were held guilty under Sections 376 D, 366, 342, 395 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).      Nine men, including three juveniles, were accused of robbing and raping the 52-year-old Danish woman at knife-point near New Delhi railway station in January 2014 after she sought directions to her hotel in Paharganj area.       Shyam Lal, one of the accused, died in February in Delhi's Tihar Jail and the proceedings against him in this case were abated.      The three minors are facing proceedings before the Juvenile Justice Board in connection with this case. (ANI)
New Delhi, Jun 10 () Pitching for a ban on foreign investment in tobacco sector, Federation of All India Farmer Associations (FAIFA) today said multinational firms are using ambiguities in the FDI policy to endorse international brands in the country, which encourages illegal trade.  FAIFA, which claims to represent 'lakhs of tobacco growers' in India, alleged the MNCs switch supply chains globally depending upon currency fluctuations and labour arbitrage, thereby making for an unstable employment opportunity and not adding value in the domestic economy.  "We have written to Prime Minister highlighting how the multinational tobacco companies are using ambiguities in FDI policy to endorse international brands in India which encourages illegal trade," FAIFA General Secretary Murali Babu said in a statement.  FAIFA also welcomed a move by the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP) to ban FDI in tobacco sector, which has got support from the Finance Ministry.  "MNCs possess the unique competitive ability to switch supply chains globally depending upon currency fluctuations as well as opportunities arising from labour arbitrage. This does not also make for a stable employment opportunity and value addition in the domestic economy," FAIFA said.  The tobacco farmers' body further said: "As a result, the country today is witnessing a jobless growth in consumption besides significant outflow of foreign currency in the form."  The body further said there has been a steep decline in legal cigarette volumes and the consequent reduction in the utilisation of FCV (Flue Cured Virginia) tobacco in cigarette has had "a devastating impact" on the tobacco farmers.  It blamed increased taxation on legal cigarettes and "the resulting growth of illegal cigarettes in the country which the multinational companies promote through the loopholes in FDI" for the plight of the tobacco farmers. RKL SBT ABK
New Delhi, Jun 10 () SBI and Spain's CaixaBank have inked pact to provide loans to Indo-Spanish joint ventures and local enterprises here.  State Bank of India (SBI) and CaixaBank have signed a memorandum of agreement to enhance business synergies.  As per the agreement, they will expand banks' guarantee transaction businesses by jointly providing credit to Indian-Spanish joint ventures and Indian local enterprises, SBI said in a statement.  "The banks will also cooperate through introduction of business opportunities and partnering on possible infrastructure funds," it added.  The agreement was signed by CaixaBank's Executive Vice-President, International Banking, Victoria Matia and SBI's Chief General Manager Sujit Kumar Varma.  The banks will collaborate in areas of mutual interest such as syndicated loan business, guarantee transactions, trade finance and export credit agency finance, infrastructure finance and networking services, among others.  Through this agreement, both SBI and CaixaBank will gain direct access to their respective markets of operation, said the release.  Both banks' clients will be able to use the vast combined network to expand their businesses abroad.  "... this agreement with India's leading financial institution... will help facilitate the growth of Spanish companies operating in this market," said Matia.  "India is increasingly making its global presence felt across various landscapes. Partnering with an organisation like SBI is strategically important to us, and we look forward to contributing to SBI's growth through our market expertise and established relationships."  CaixaBank had established its representative office in New Delhi in 2011.  It offers business counseling and helps Spanish companies to develop their business in the South Asian region and Indian companies with interest in Spain. KPM ARD
NEW DELHI: Five countries, six days and many memorable quotes from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. His cosmopolitan speechwriting team really pulled out all the stops for the PM's recent trip. The PM's quotes referenced a range of personalities from around the world, from Afghanistan's Rumi to Mexico's Octavio Paz. Modi subtly flattered all the countries he visited, citing from their history and culture, and, well, from their sports achievements, too. Here are some of his memorable quotes from the five countries he visisted: Afghanistan  *About the Harirud river: "And it is a wise Afghan proverb that says, Kabul be zar basha be barf ne: May Kabul be without gold rather than (without) snow. For the snow feeds the rivers that sustain life and agriculture."*About the importance of the Afghanistan-India Friendship Dam: "Today, the world will see the Harirud River as an abiding emblem of our commitment to a shared future of progress. And, the Friendship Dam unites us in solidarity as Chishti Sharif joined us in spirit centuries ago."*About Herat: "Herat has time and again seen sublime glory and tragic ruin. And, the city that once Jalaluddin Rumi held as the finest will rise again."Qatar  *To Indians in Qatar, which is home to 600,000 people of Indian origin: "I came to Doha in the evening and the first programme on my schedule was to meet you all... When someone from your land, speaking your language comes, I am sure that would make you very happy."*To Indian workers in Doha, Qatar: "Do work hard, but while doing so, please do focus on keeping your health and body fighting fit."Switzerland  *On Switzerland's reputation: "I feel the weight of history, standing here with you in this truly international city-Geneva. And, not just international, but a city with a humanitarian soul. After all, it is home to the "Red Cross" and headquarters of several international organizations devoted to serving mankind."*On relations between Switzerland-India: "There are many success stories of our relationship. One that has been making waves in the Grand Slams of the tennis world is the partnership of famous Swiss player Martina Hingis with Sania Mirza and Leander Paes of India." United States  *On bipartisanship: "The PM couldn't resist making a Congress joke in the house when he said: "I am informed that the working of the US Congress is harmonious. I am also told you are well-known for your bipartisanship. Well, you are not alone. Time and again, I have also witnessed a similar spirit in the Indian Parliament, especially our Upper House. So, as you can see, we have many shared practices."*About the US-India relationship: "The orchestra have sufficiently tuned their instruments the baton has given the signal. And there is a new symphony in play."*On smartphones, 'Siri' and yoga: "SIRI tells us that India's ancient heritage of Yoga has over 30 million practitioners in the U.S. And, we have not yet claimed intellectual property right on Yoga."*On yoga, again, with some baseball thrown in: "It is estimated that more Americans bend for yoga than to throw a curve ball. And, no Mr. Speaker, we have not yet claimed intellectual property right on Yoga."Mexico  * On Mexico's hospitality "Although this is my first visit to your great country as the Prime Minister, I had experienced the richness of your culture during my travel in early nineties as a common India. "* On Mexico's poet, writer and diplomat Octavio Paz: "Friends, in his book 'In Light of India', the great author Octavio Paz wrote, 'I can understand what it means to be Indian, because I am Mexican'. Of course, it is true the other way too! I believe we have succeeded today in strengthening this mutual understanding further."
MUMBAI: The Bombay High Court will pronounce its order on the Udta Punjab censorship row on Monday, June 14.      Earlier on Friday, the Bombay High Court hasslammed the Censor Board of Film Certification (CBFC) and asked them to certify the film according to its content. The court questioned the Censor Board counsels as to why had they demanded 89 cuts in the film.      While the CBFC counsels argued that the content, language and actions are abusive and objectionable, the HC asked them to certify the film accordingly rather than demanding cuts in the film. The counsels further argued that the film's content will give out a wrong message to the audience as lot of expletives and double-meaning words have been used in the film and a Punjabi character is shown doing wrong, objectionable gestures. To which, the High Court Judge said, "Audience is mature; let the audience decide. How can you say which word is right and which is wrong? Today's audience is smart and intelligent. They know what is right and what is wrong. Film industry is not a glass which has to be handled with care. What's the point of making a film if you cut majority of scenes from it? Also, you want to remove the word 'Punjab' from the title, which is pointless."          READ ALSO:    CBFC defends delay in Bombay HC: Abusive language throughout the film        The CBFC counsels, in their defence, said, "The first scene of the film shows a signboard of Punjab and packets of drugs that are being thrown across the border to Pakistan. The film shows that Punjab is the hub of drug smuggling. We have cut the scenes according to the rules and have certified the film accordingly." The Judge said, "If the film has expletives and foul language throughout then people won't watch it. Why are you giving so much publicity to it?"      The petitioner argued saying that films like 'Gangs of Wasseypur,' which was directed by Anurag Kashyap, and Delhi Belly had lot of expletives in it, so why did Censor Board pass those films? The High Court has suggested that the scene where Shahid Kapoor is seen urinating in front of the crowd during a rock concert be deleted. The HC has indicated that it will allow the film to be released with only one suggested cut and the rest 12 will be set aside. The petitioner agrees to remove some scenes from the film, including one where film's lead is seen urinating.      The Bombay High Court has reserved the verdict for Monday and has asked the makers to add a proper Disclaimer in the beginning of the film.      WATCH: Anurag Kashyap draws PM's attention to 'Udta Punjab' row
New Delhi, Jun 10 () Five men were today sentenced to life imprisonment by a Delhi court for gangraping a 52-year- old Danish woman at knife-point near the New Delhi railway station two years ago.  Additional Sessions Judge Ramesh Kumar awarded the jail term to convicts Mahender alias Ganja (25), Mohd Raja (25), Raju (23), Arjun (21) and Raju Chakka (30).  "For the offence of section 376 D IPC, all the convicts are sentenced to life imprisonment," the judge said while pronouncing the order.  The court also imposed a fine of Rs 83,000 each on Raju and Raju Chakka, Rs 93,000 each on Mahender and Mohd Raja and Rs 1,03,000 on Arjun respectively.  The court has held these five men guilty for the offences under IPC sections 376 (D) (gang rape), 395 (dacoity), 366 (kidnapping), 342 (wrongful confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention).  Besides sentencing these convicts for the offence of gangrape, the court also awarded varying jail terms to them for other offences for which they were held guilty.  According to the police, the nine persons, all vagabonds, had robbed and gangraped the Danish tourist at knife-point on the night of January 14, 2014, after leading her to a secluded spot close to the Divisional Railway Officers' Club near the railway station.  The sixth accused, 56-year-old Shyam Lal had died in February this year and proceedings against him were abated.  Three other accused in the case are juveniles and inquiry against them is in progress before the Juvenile Justice Board.  Before commencement of proceedings today, the convicts were taken out of the courtroom and were frisked by the police on the direction of the judge.  Special Public Prosecutor Atul Shrivastava had sought maximum punishment for the convicts ie. imprisonment till the remainder of natural life, saying the crime was committed in a barbaric and inhuman manner.  Legal aid counsel Dinesh Sharma, who represented the convicts, had sought leniency for them saying they belong to poor background.  The victim had come here on January 1, 2014, and stayed for a couple of days before leaving for Agra. After visiting several places, she returned to Delhi on January 13, 2014, and stayed in a hotel in Paharganj near the station.  The next day when she was returning to her hotel, she lost her way and had asked one of the accused for directions when the men waylaid and gangraped her.  During the trial, the accused had claimed innocence. SKV RRT ABA VMN
New Delhi, June 10 () The Centre will invest about Rs 75,000 crore in augmenting highway infrastructure in Uttar Pradesh over the next two years.  "Ministry of Road Transport and Highways through National Highways Authority of India and State Public Works Department shall invest approximately an amount of Rs 74,794 crore in the state in next two years," Road Transport and Highways Ministry said in a statement.  There are 60 national highways with a total length of 8,483 km in Uttar Pradesh, out of which 4,529 km are with NHAI and 3,143 km with the state PWD while no objection certificate is awaited for 10 highways totalling 811 km.  Eight major projects worth Rs 6,218 crore having a length of 865 km were completed in the state in the last two years.  "Thirty one major projects are ongoing with a total length of 2,156 km with total project cost (TPC) of Rs 19,436 crore. Twenty four major projects were awarded during 2014-15 and 2015-16, with a total length of 1,293 km and TPC of Rs 16,949 crore," the statement said.  It said 15 projects are likely to be awarded in the next 12 months with a length of 840 km with TPC of Rs 6,790 crore.  Besides 1,400 km of national highways are under DPR (detailed project report) stage and civil construction work is likely to be awarded in the next two years for about Rs 14,000 crore.  "Under CRF (central road fund) and schemes a total number of 79 Projects have been sanctioned amounting to Rs 3,035 crore during 2015-16 and 2016-17... Thirty five national highways with 2,591 km length have been approved in-principle. MORTH shall invest an amount of about Rs 25,910 crore to develop these national highways," the statement said. NAM ABK
New Delhi, Jun 10 () Delhi High Court has dismissed the plea of a hospitality firm seeking a direction to Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to refund Rs 39.54 lakh to it, saying the company's hotel had been polluting the city for the last two decades.  The court noted that the firm had not taken any consent to establish or operate the hotel and a "very important and salutary provision" of environmental law has not been complied with by them for nearly 20 years.  "However, this court is of the opinion that the present writ petition is liable to be dismissed on another ground also inasmuch as the petitioner (Krishna Continental Ltd) has not approached this court with clean hands as it had been polluting the city for the last 20 years i.e. from 1993 to 2013," Justice Manmohan said.  "During this period, neither a 'consent to establish' nor a 'consent to operate' had been obtained by the petitioner. To say that the lapse on the part of petitioner was an innocent non-compliance is to trivialise a statutory provision which has a direct and vital impact on the life of the citizens of this city," the court said.  The court's order came on a writ petition filed by Krishna Continental Ltd, which runs a hotel here since 1993, seeking a direction to the DPCC to refund Rs 39,54,900 to it along with interest.  The petitioner said that in April 2013 it was served with show cause notices under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and Air (Prevention Control of Pollution) Act 1981 in which "serious deficiencies" were pointed out.  It said thereafter in June 2013, they received a modified direction to install adequate effluent treatment plant and was also asked to submit an application for consent.  The firm said that "under the threat of imminent closure and penal actions" it filed an application in August 2013 with a demand draft of Rs 41 lakh as condonation fee with the DPCC "under protest seeking consent to operate."  It claimed that as per the previous fee structure it was liable to pay Rs 46,000 only and the DPCC was not authorised to levy penalty in the garb of condonation fee retrospectively at an exorbitant rate of Rs two lakh per annum from the date of establishment of hotel.  The counsel appearing for the petitioner said that they should not be penalised for "innocent non-compliance of laws".  However, DPCC argued in court that the petition was not maintainable and the petitioner had been running its hotel without obtaining a 'consent to establish' and 'consent to operate' and without installation of any anti-pollution equipment for the last 20 years. ABA ARC
Mumbai, June 10 (IANS) Rapper Raftaar, who has released his first solo single "Instagram Love", says that he doesn't understand how the new generation falls in love online so easily. He also calls himself an old school believer when it comes to falling in love.      "The youth of today believe in the concept of 'quick'. 'Instagram Love' highlights how it is so easy to look up somebody online and convince oneself that you are in love when, in reality, you actually fall for the filters that people add on to themselves to appear beautiful.      " I'm an old school believer and I don't quite understand how the new generation can fall in love online so easily," Raftaar said in a statement.      His first solo song has been produced and released by One Digital Entertainment and Raftaar says that he was waiting for the right moment to release his solo track.      "As regards to my solo career, I was waiting for the right moment and I feel this was the right time... I'm grateful for such great reviews Instagram Love has been fetching ever since it released," he said.      The song has been launched in association with Vodafone for their new product Vodafone "U". A peppy and catchy number, the video has crossed over 3,500,000 views in only a few days after its release.      --IANS      nv/bg
New Delhi, Jun 10 () Delhi Police today chargesheeted 17 accused, 12 of whom are absconding, for allegedly conspiring, recruiting Indian youths and establishing a base of terror outfit Al-Qaeda in Indian Subcontinent (AQIS).  In its final report filed before Additional Sessions Judge Reetesh Singh, Special Cell of Delhi Police charged the five arrested accused -- Mohd Asif, Zafar Masood, Mohd Abdul Rehman, Syed Anzar Shah and Abdul Sami -- for alleged offences under the provisions of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).  They were arrested between December 2015 and January 2016 from different parts of the country.  All 17 have been chargesheeted for alleged offences under sections 18 (punishment for conspiracy), 18-B (punishment for recruiting of any person or persons for terrorist act) and 20 (Punishment for being member of terrorist gang or organisation) of the UAPA.  The probe agency has alleged that terror outfit Al-Qaeda was trying to set up its base in India under the banner of Al-Qaeda in Indian Sub Continent (AQIS) and some youths from districts of western Uttar Pradesh had already left India and joined its cadre in Pakistan.  It claimed that and one of the modules of the outfit was active in Sambhal district in Uttar Pradesh.  It alleged that the accused were in touch with terrorists from Pakistan, Iran and Turkey via social media and mobile phones, and they had visited these countries and had also financed AQIS and motivated the youths for 'Jehad'.  Besides the five arrested accused, the agency also charged 12 others who are at large and the court had earlier issued non-bailable warrant against them.  The absconding accused are Syed Akhtar, Sanaul Haq, Mohd Sharjeel Akhtar, Usman, Mohd Rehan, Abu Sufiyan, Syed Mohd Arshiyan, Syed Mohd Zishan Ali, Sabeel Ahmed, Mohd Shahid Faisal, Farhatullah Ghori and Mohd Umar.  The FIR in the present case was registered after arrest of Asif on December 14 last year. UK ABA RT
BALLARI/ BENGALURU: Deciding it was time they put an end to her tantrums, the Karnataka government late on Thursday evening accepted the resignation of Kudligi taluk deputy superintendent of police Anupama Shenoy.A brief statement from the CM's office said her resignation had been accepted with immediate effect.Surfacing six days after she had handed her resignation letter, Shenoy was on Thursday firm in her resolve to quit. Initially, Siddaramaiah asked her seniors to persuade the police officer to reconsider her decision, but in the evening decided enough was enough.The 35-year-old police officer had put in her papers on June 4, and remained inaccessible ever since. Her resignation was triggered by a land dispute over which she had arrested some persons, who were let off without her knowledge. The land issue is said to have been the last straw for Shenoy . In January, she was shunted out of Ballari by labour minister and PT Parameshwar Naik after she put his phone call on hold to talk to her superior.Reaching Kudligi from Bhatkal at 4.30am, Shenoy declined to meet any of her colleagues, and was closeted in her police quarters. Arriving in an orange car with her brother Achuta Shenoy and nephew, she was mobbed by mediapersons. Around 2.15pm, in a brief interaction with reporters, she said: "I am not going to meet any SP or police officer. I am returning to my relative's house in Bhatkal. There is no chance of me withdrawing the resignation."Shenoy, who initially confirmed she had been updating her Facebook profile, tried to distance herself from it, saying: "That is not my account... What is this Facebook? I have no knowledge about it."Shenoy's Facebook updates were worrying the government, particularly one status message which set Naik a deadline to resign by 5pm on June 7. If he failed to, she threatened to release a damaging CD and an audio tape about him.Around noon, Ballari SP R Chethan deputed Hoovinahadagali DySP RS Patil to meet Shenoy. Patil had to return empty-handed, embarrassed by her refusal to open the door, with TV crews capturing him knocking persistently. Shenoy allowed only Dalit Sangharsha Samithi leader Durgesh and a couple of his followers into her house. She is reported to have requested them to stop all agitations in her support as it would send out a wrong message. Even as the drama of trying to persuade her to meet Chethan was under way in Ballari, Siddaramaiah held a meeting with home minister G Parameshwara.The BJP , which stood by her side, also wanted her to resume duty . State BJP president BS Yeddyurappa said: "When the CM has asked her to reconsider, it is not good on Shenoy's part to be stubborn. She should return to work.''THURSDAY FB POST: I HAVE TO SAVE MY LIFEThough former Kudligi DySP Anupama Shenoy distanced herself from her Facebook account, the social media platform saw continuous updates of her thoughts through Thursday.A few hours before her resignation was accepted, Shenoy posted: "Those who waited the entire night for a CD, watched a blue film and became gentlemen.""Nobody is trying to understand what I want to say. The news channels need only news. Officers want power. People want to achieve their challenges. For me, I have to save my life."At 5.29am, her status said: "I apologize to the media for not speaking to them. What to do there was a police escort for me. Besides the vehicle's speed was not more than 60km per hour and at one place the axle of the vehicle snapped."
Bengaluru: A 21-year-old woman allegedly molested by her father since her early teens has knocked on the doors of the Karnataka State Human Rights Commission(KSHRC) after police attempted to push her back into her tormentor's clutches.   When Sri Vidya(name changed) told Yelahankapolice she was being sexually abused by her father, they didn't take action against him. A neighbour who rushed to Vidya's rescue was also subjected to police's high-handedness.   Vidya was forced to live with the trauma for years just to keep her family together. Worried about antagonizing her husband, her mother asked her to "adjust". "When I was in class 9, my father began to behave 'badly'. I used to sleep with my mother, who used to wake up very early in the morning. My father would come in and touch me in places he shouldn't have," Vidya said in her complaint to the commission.   She also said her father, an licemployee, began watching pornography in her presence and compelled her also to watch it on many occasions. "I have been scared and miserable for so many years," Vidya said, adding that her mother feared they would be left to fend for themselves if she went against her husband.   Finally, Vidya had to confide in her brother, who is just a year younger. "...My brother confronted my father who began hitting and abusing him," she said. "He even sent us out of the house one night around 1am. When we asked him if we could take our certificates so that we could start living independently, he abused us," she added.   It is after this incident that her father called police and told them that his children were being influenced by a neighbour, who was also forcing them to convert to another religion. "This was to discourage the person who was helping us move out of the house. I told police what my father said was not true. On the contrary, he was harassing me. But they paid no heed," she said.   KSHRC acting chairperson Meera Saksenasaid: "Left with no choice, the woman moved out with her brother but an inspector began to harass the neighbour. He continued to do so despite the woman and her brother giving a statement that they are not minors and had moved out voluntarily. We have asked the inspector to file a report soon," she said.   "There is no problem now. We went to the commission and the matter is resolved," said Yelahanka inspector Shivakumarsaid. Asked whether the father harassed the woman, he said: "That is not true".   Meera said the commission also summoned the jurisdictional ACPwhen it found the inspector was favouring the father. The woman and the brother are currently living in a paying guest accommodation and they don't want the commission to reveal the address to their parents. "I just want to live peacefully. Please do not trouble me. Just help me live by myself. That's all I ask for," the woman said.
Mumbai, Jun 10 () Consumer durable company Usha International is expanding its retail footprint across modern retail, rural markets and e-commerce and looking at a 30 per cent growth in retail business.  "Usha is investing significantly to expand its retail presence and aiming at a 30 per cent growth in retail business by ensuring product display management and focus experiential marketing," Kapil Kohli, Vice-President and Retail Head at Usha International, told .  "Leveraging our high brand recall, we are ensuring presence across channels and the last-mile connectivity for maximum outreach for all our products across categories."  The company is looking to improve its overall buying experience, taking into consideration a shift in consumer behaviour.  Usha plans to open 50 new 'Usha Joy' stores by March 2017 across tier-II and tier-III cities and is looking to establish a connect with over 17,500 retailers and dealers to consolidate its brand presence across the country, Kohli explained.  Additionally, it is transforming its existing 60 plus company showrooms in metro cities and integrating 'experiential zones'.  "We are planning to renovate 20-25 per cent of our existing showrooms this year," he said.  For modern retail outlets, the company is increasing its touch points to over 800 stores, from around 600 stores last year.  Keen to leverage e-commerce channels, the company is tying up with regional retailers and plans to sell exclusive products through e-commerce, Kohli said.  It has already tied up with Amazon, Snapdeal, Flipkart and Tata Unistore and is in the process of finalising an agreement with Pepperfry, he added. DSK GK ARD
BENGALURU: Latha, public relation officer, Karnataka StateRoad TransportCorporation (KSRTC) has rewon the eMERG International Women's award 2016. eMERG is an association for women in Technology, Business, Profession and Services. eMERG women entrepreneurs and professionals are playing a vital role in the economic growth of the country.
New Delhi, June 10 (ANI): Parijat industries , which has raised an undisclosed amount from Rabo Equity Advisors, Investment Advisors for India Agri Business Fund II (the "Fund") for a minority stake, is looking to become a dominant player in the Indian Agrochemical market, after making its mark in the international arena.  Parijat is an Indian Agrochemical player with extensive global presence in 70 countries, 6 international offices, exclusive distribution networks in India, Russia and the C.I.S and West Africa. Parijat is looking to achieve Sales of INR 15,000 Mn by 2021 and also expand its domestic distribution network to 10,000 retail points in three years from 4,500 at present, thereby expanding its presence through the country. Parijat is recognised in the Industry for introducing and promoting new age molecules.  The investment comes along positive news on the monsoon in India after two difficult drought years for Indian agriculture, with shall also boost the companies' growth.  Rabo Equity Advisors, a subsidiary of Rabobank, currently advises two funds in India, IABF - II and IABF - I. India Agri Business Fund I - a $120 Mn fund which is invested in 10 companies across sectors like biotechnology, warehousing, edible oils, dairy and basmati rice.  India Agri Business Fund II is a USD 200 mln Private Equity Fund targeted at expansion/growth of Indian food and agribusiness companies in India across the value chain. It is sponsored by Rabobank along with pedigreed anchors namely CDC Group, Generali Insurance and Asian Development Bank.  According to Mr. Keshav Anand, Chairman & Managing Director, Parijat Industries "Parijat is committed to exponentially growing its domestic presence with innovative products besides the international footprint. We are delighted to have Rabo Equity as our partner and hope to leverage their extensive domain knowledge and global outreach in the Food & Agriculture sector"  According to Mr. Rajesh Srivastava, Chairman & Managing Director, Rabo Equity Advisors, "Rabo Equity is excited to invest in Parijat and believe that under the leadership of the Anand Family, Parijat shall be a leading player in the high potential agrochemical sector. We are especially excited at the Company's export forays"  Parijat Industries is a first generation agrochemical company which pioneered the space of exports of Indian agrochemicals, at first through syndication and subsequently through exports of its own formulations manufactured at their plant in Ambala.  They are young entrants to the space of the Indian market but in this short time have introduced a number of molecules that have differentiated Parijat as a source of cutting edge products in the domestic space. (ANI)
Ahmedabad: Contrary to the perception of Gujarat being a largely vegetarian state, two out of every five persons in Gujarat are non-vegetarians. Data from Sample Registration System (SRS) baseline survey 2014 published by the Registrar General of India reveals that 61.80% population of the state is vegetarian while 39.05% is non-vegetarian.In fact, Gujarat has more people eating non-vegetarian food than in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. The SRS survey reveals that 71% population in India is non-vegetarian while 28.85% is vegetarian. Highest number of poultry, meat and fish eaters is in Telangana where 98.7% population is non-vegetarian followed by West Bengal (98.55%), Odisha (97.35%) and Kerala (97%). In Gujarat, almost equal number of men and women with 39.90% men and 38.20% women concede they are nonvegetarians.Gujarat is widely perceived to be a vegetarian state. Global pizza chain Pizza Hut had famously made its Gujarat foray with first vegetarian restaurant in the world, while global restaurant chains like Subway, KFC and McDonalds are not just experimenting with vegetarian food but also offering Jain food."But reality is that a large chunk of the population in Gujarat, which has the longest 1,600 km coastline, which includes 15% tribal, 7% Dalits, 50% OBS and 12% minorities like Muslims, Christians and Parsis are non-vegetarians," says sociologist Ghanshyam Shah."Due to Sankritization or emulation of lifestyle followed by upper castes and certain successful religious movements, number of non-vegetarians may have gone down ," says sociologist Gaurang Jani.
Agra: A six-member BJP committee, formed to inquire into the Jawahar Bagh violence of June 2, has accused SP minister Shivpal Singh Yadav of "conspiring" with Swadheen Bharat Subhash Sena (SBSS) leader Ram Vriksha Yadav to "encroach" on the 260-acre park and pressure the government to lease it out to the cult for 99 years. The report, which is likely to be submitted to Union home minister Rajnath Singh, recommends a CBI inquiry into the violence and the circumstances that enabled Ram Vriksha and his followers to occupy the park for over two years, without the administration making any serious attempts to get it vacated. The report claims that the administration, under pressure from Shivpal Yadav, had "done nothing" to prevent the encroachment and was even contemplating on leasing out the land to the cult for 99 years.Talking to TOI, BJP's Meerut MP, Rajendra Agrawal, who headed the committee, said, "The administration's collusion is evident, as the encroachment happened right under their noses and they did nothing, despite complaints being made to them." He pointed out that the park was adjacent to the collectorate, Police Lines and residences of judicial officers, "and yet the encroachment happened". While Shivpal Yadav was not available for comment, SP spokesman Rajendra Chaudhary said the BJP's report "is a political conspiracy to defame UP minister (Shivpal Yadav). He said Shivpal Yadav has no connection whatsoever with Ram Vriksha Yadav and that the BJP is just trying to gain political mileage by making these baseless allegations. He dubbed the BJP report a "farce".The report, meanwhile, also states that the administration "deliberately" did not take any action against Ram Vriksha, despite the fact that he had 70 cases registered against him.
Bengaluru, Jun 10 () A former senior woman police officer, who resigned her post over alleged inteference in her work by a district-in-charge minister, today claimed her life was under threat,  The claim by Anupama Shenoy, who was Deputy Superintendent of Police of Kudligi sub-division, Ballari District, came a day after Karnataka government accepted her resignation and she surfaced after remaining incommunicado for several days.  "There is a threat to my life," Shenoy said but did not elaborate.  Shenoy was reportedly at loggerheads with Labour Minister P T Parameshwar Naik, also the district in-charge minister, and had tendered her resignation abruptly on June 4 and was untraceable since then.  Replying to a query, Shenoy said she will be releasing a CD and audio before the media in Bengaluru.  As Shenoy had remained elusive, police had set up a special team to track her down. Her alleged posts on Facebook levelling accusations against Naik had created a storm.  Asked about her Facebook posts, she has maintained that she did not know about Facebook and it might have been hacked also.  Before she surfaced, Ballari SP had also deputed an officer to go to her hometown Udupi to contact Shenoy and her family. Shenoy had yesterday refused to meet Kudligi in-charge Deputy SP R S Patil, who went to her official quarters.  Following protests by a group of people against her for taking three persons into preventive detention, Shenoy left the office on June 4 after handing over her resignation letter to subordinate officers, instructing them to give it to the Superintendent of Police.  Officials had said Shenoy was acting on a complaint by Dalit activists against the extension of a liquor shop that was blocking the way to Ambedkar Bhavan nearby.  Naik has said he has nothing to do with the officer's resignation and expressed doubts about the veracity of the Facebook account and its user. In January, Shenoy was transferred allegedly at the behest of Naik for putting his call on hold, with the incident triggering a storm.  A video footage purportedly showing Naik making a boastful claim about shunting out Shenoy had also gone viral later. BDN RA GSN
Chennai: After high tides washed away several hutments belonging to fishermen at Foreshore Estate on Wednesday evening, minister of fisheries D Jayakumar visited the area on Thursday and promised to build groynes within six months to keep erosion in check.Sea water entered more than 50 homes on the beaches at Foreshore Estate, Srinivasapuram, Olcott Kuppam and Besant Nagar giving fishermen a scare. Fishermen residing in the hutments and wooden structures by the shore said sea water intrusion was a recurring problem and demanded a solution before the rain intensified in the city."The CM has directed to construct curved groynes to restrict sea water at the shore. Feasibility of the construction at the affected areas will be studied," said Jayakumar. Chennai collector G Govindaraj and mayor Saidai Duraisamy also visited the affected areas.
Hyderabad: A sub-inspector of police, attached to She Team, was transferred after a woman, a respondent in a harassment case, lodged a complaint alleging inappropriate behaviour by the policeman. The SI has now been asked to report at the Hyderabad commissionerate. Sub-inspector Pavan Kumar, while investigating a complaint lodged by a victim, called her up and subsequently sent a few messages on WhatsApp, to which she responded. "However, the woman took objection to the messages and lodged a complaint alleging inappropriate language. The SI was then asked to report at the city police headquarters," deputy commissioner of police (CCS) Avinash Mohanty said.
Bengaluru: Website of Karnataka police was hacked by alleged Pakistani hackers on Friday morning. The website, which is currently down, was defaced with Pakistan's flags. Senior police officers in the state police who confirmed the hacking, said they website will be restored soon."Police Website Pwned! (sic). Shame on your security. We are team Pak cyber attackers," read the defaced home page of the website, along with the flag of Pakistan.The hacking has come as an embarrassment for the state police, which boasts of its technical advances in policing. Senior police officers confirmed the website was hacked in the morning. "We are in the process of restoring it and an investigation will be ordered into the case. We are trying to locate the IP address of the hack," said a senior state police officer.
Aurangabad: Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MACCIA) has organised a one-day workshop for family businesses in Marathwada tomorrow at the auditorium of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, Aurangabad. The event is being held in collaboration with various local trade and business associations around Marathwada."Nearly 75% of the global business economy is run by family-managed businesses. The same stands true for the economy in India, where a large number of small and medium businesses are family-managed. This area needs to be viewed as a specialised area with a more in-depth perspective on the issues faced by family businesses," said Chamber of Marathwada Industries and Agriculture (CMIA) Ashish Garde."The event will be held on Saturday between 9.30am and 2.30pm," said MACCIA president Shantanu Bhadkamkar."Specialised faculty has been invited from S P Jain Institute of Management and Research, Mumbai, one of the top institutions that have specialised in the area of study and research on family managed businesses," he said. tnn
ALLAHABAD: Gujarati Kadhi and UP's Kadhi-Chawal will figure among the special dishes to be served to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) delegates, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during the two-day national executive meet scheduled to be held in Sangam City on June 12 and June 13 . And in order to ensure a smooth conduct of affairs, the BJP central leadership has decided to set up three messes to serve fresh food and meals to delegates and others. While sharing the menu of breakfast, lunch and dinner with TOI, senior BJP leader Vijay Mishra, in-charge of the food committee, said, "As per the directives of central leadership, we have prepared a simple menu for delegates. A special Gujarati Kadhi and UP's Kadhi-Bhaat would be served on June 12 and 13 respectively." He further added that they would be setting up three messes to serve food and meals to delegates. In the first mess, senior delegates including Prime Minister Narendra Modi would be served food and meals. In the second mess, other senior leaders along with local party workers would be enjoying meal and dinner. The mess number 3 would be meant for security personnel, SPG officials and others would be served food and meals. For breakfast, we would be serving bread, poha, idli-sabhar, tea (milk, lemon and black tea), bada and coffee to delegates. For lunch, two types of dal (pulses) including dal makhani and green vegetables along with kulcha paratha, tandoori roti and chapatis would be served. Besides, matar paneer and other paneer related dishes, salad along with chapatis, sweets and others would be served in dinner. As far as special dishes are concerned, Gujarati Kadhi and UP's Kadhi-Chawal would be served on June 12 and 13 respectively. Mishra, also categorically stated that the organisers would be serving fresh and delicious items those for who want to enjoy garlic and onion less food stuff during the event.
Hyderabad: Decks have been cleared for the development of AP capital city Amaravati under the Swiss Challenge method. The high-power committee formed to study and resolve issues related to the proposal submitted by Singapore companies has given green signal to it. It however, has suggested a few modifications to the proposals submitted by the consortium of Ascendas-Singbridge and SembCorp Development Limited."We have submitted our report. We also held discussions with the Singapore consortium. The consortium will submit its final proposal in the next few days," said C Kutumba Rao, member of the committee. The consortium now needs to rework its proposal to meet the guidelines of the AP government.The consortium earlier, agreed to take 51 per cent equity in the form of capital, whereas AP will have equity in the form of land. The revenue generated out of the business will also be shared by the consortium and AP government in the ratio of 51:49. However, the consortium wanted its share to be changed from time to time, but the AP government wanted it to remain constant. The Amaravati Development Corporation (Capital City Development Management Company) will enter into an agreement with the consortium for the capital city's development through the Swiss Challenge method.Reportedly, Singapore expressed its willingness to build eight lakh square feet in the first phase. Ascendas has built the International Tech Park in Bangalore (ITPB). A similar structure will be constructed in Amaravati.The AP government in principle gave its nod for the compensation clause sought by Singapore. In case of termination of the project by the AP government, the company will be paid 200 percent of the project cost as compensation.As part of the Swiss Challenge method, once the Singapore companies submit the proposal, it will be put into the public domain. If a competitor firm offers a better proposal, it will be referred to the first proposer. If the first proposer (Singapore consortium in this case) fails to come up with a proposal better than the one put forward by the competitor, the contract will go to the competitor firm.Earlier, the AP Capital Region Development Authority (APCRDA) expressed its concerns over the price mentioned by Singapore consortium in the proposal for the sale or development of land allotted to it. Singapore will take up development of 1691 acres close to the seed capital area.
Agra: After 13 years of research and crores of rupees in expenses, parachutes designed by a Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) lab here for special forces have not only failed field trials but also been classed as "seriously life threatening" in an audit report by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG). The auditor has also slammed the functioning of the lab as well as the domestic manufacturer, Ordnance Parachute Factory (OPF) in Kanpur. Released on Wednesday, the report emanates from an audit of Army ordnance factories and defence PSUs by CAG, which has pointed out serious lapses on the part of the Aerial Delivery Research and Development Establishment (ADRDE) in Agra and the OPF in Kanpur for "failing" to produce combat free fall (CFF) parachutes despite an expenditure of Rs 10.75 crore.CAG has raised questions about ADRDE, the sole institution in India for the development of military-grade parachutes, vis-a-vis its claim of successful trials of CFF chutes, pointing out that an overwhelming 75% had failed field trials. CFF parachutes are used by elite paratroopers for highly specialised operations. In 1986, a batch was imported, which was de-commissioned in 2002, six years after their 10-year shelf life expired.In 2001, the Army placed an order for 1,031 CFF parachutes, of which 410 were to be procured from abroad on a fast-track basis for urgent needs. The remaining 621 were to be developed under a project for indigenous CFFs which started in March 2003. However, in 2006, the ministry of defence junked the idea of import, suggesting that all be procured from domestic sources.Between March and November 2006, ADRDE conducted trials for the CFFs it had developed and claimed success. The defence ministry then placed an order with OPF Kanpur for 700 of the parachutes in October 2008, at a total cost of Rs 55.35 crore. OPF was to deliver a sample of 40 for further trials. However, according to the CAG report, in 2010, trials revealed the parachutes were not up to the mark, with experts saying the implications of the flaws were "seriously life threatening". Despite this, the ministry, in 2011, ordered two consignments of 25 parachutes each.
Aurangabad: The cash-strapped municipal body that is struggling to recover property tax dues to the tune of Rs 285 crore has decided to open courts at all the nine ward offices for redressal of pending cases. The facility would enable the municipal authorities settle the pending tax issues on the spot and help recover the tax. Municipal commissioner Om Prakash Bakoria said the delay in resolving the pending cases was posing big hurdle in tax recovery. "But now we are streamlining the system. The tax payers may now visit the ward offices and resolve the disputes. Hearings will be held by the courts and if possible the authorities would clear the proposals," he said. The civic body has also set up a committee comprising senior officials from the accounts, town planning, and tax collection departments to deal with complex cases. Many tax payers have been complaining about poor mechanism in the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) for disposal of pending cases due to which cases have piled up. Meanwhile, deputy municipal commissioner Ayub Khan said the civic body has distributed property tax demand notices for the current financial year. "It is for the first time that the notices were served on time," he said. Apart from this, the reminder notices have also been issued to the defaulters. In 2016-17, the authorities are looking at raising Rs 85 crore through current demand, and Rs 285 crore through recovery of outstanding dues, taking the total property tax collection target to Rs 370 crore. So far the municipal body has collected Rs 19.65 crore as tax in 2016-17, which is Rs 9 crore more, compared to the same period previous year. By June 8, 2015 the civic body had collected Rs 10.65 crore. The total financial liability on the municipal body in the current financial year is of Rs 662 crore but it seems very difficult to raise the amount through routine tax recovery. The civic body has no other option than speeding up recovery of pending tax.
Aurangabad: Citizens will now be able to send emergency messages on mobile networking app Whats app to the municipal authorities, especially during the upcoming monsoon season. The facility will be available on the mobile number 70-30-93-6392 and will be on call 24x7. The messages are being linked to the civic body's control room and all the three fire brigade offices. The round-the-clock control room would assist the citizens facing emergencies in case of heavy rainfall or any other calamity. An official at the rank of deputy engineer will remain present in the control room along with two assistants."The municipal body has made arrangements to provide all necessary infrastructure to the citizens. We are fully prepared to the deal with any situation during the upcoming monsoon season," said municipal commissioner Om Prakash Bakoria. Anil Tanpure, head of the facility, said the civic body would swing into action as soon as it receives the call. "We will co-ordinate with the department concerned and provide help. We will also keep track of the action initiated by the ward centre," he said. In addition to this, he said that the control room would also co-ordinate with the fire brigade department of the municipal corporation and provide its services where ever it is required. Tanpure said citizens could contact the control room by calling on 0240-2333536-40.
Chennai: In a direct answer to the likes of Olaand Uber who resort to surge-pricing during high-demand timings, a new app-based cab aggregator launched in the city on Thursday is promising to never use the strategy.   "Uber innovated an idea that suited Americans. It is bad concept for India and I am against it. We will deliver the same standard of service 24 hours a day," said serial entrepreneur C Sivasankaran while launching 'Utoo' in a press conference on Thursday.   Although cabs are now more easily available than ever before, pricing has become an issue. Services like Ola and Uber have the least fares, but they increase their fares when the number of cars on the road is lower than the demand. Others like Fast Track do not have surge-pricing but thier fare is high -- a min of Rs 16 per km.   While Karnatakaand Delhi have banned surge pricing, Tamil Naduis yet to unveil a policy to regulate the sector and cab operators have charged as much as 7 times the original fare. "When my mother had to go to Central station at 5am recently, I had no option but pay nearly 700 for a cab," said Besant Nagarresident K Ramani. A petition against surge pricing begun on Change.org has received more than 60,000 signatures.   UTOO vows to put an end to such pricing. The costs will match the lowest offered by Ola and Uber, said its promoter C Sivasankaran. "The fact is that we will bargain with auto drivers when they demand more. Just a fancy term and printed receipt does not mean it is justifiable," he said.   UTOO now offers only sedan and SUV services. A ride in a sedan (Nissan Sunny) will cost 40 as base fare and 6/km - a price range that Uber (Go) and Ola (Micro) charge for hatchbacks. However, Utoo's ride time charge is 2 per minute against the 1/minute of Uber and Ola.   The fleet strength, which is 180 cars now, will be increased to 1,000 in a month and 8,500 in four months, said Sivasankaran. While Sivasankaran did not specify the amount of funding, he said it was between Rs 300 crore and Rs 1,200 crore. The initial 1,000 cars are company owned. "It is to give confidence to the driver that our model works. Once they get it, they can buy the cars from us," said Sivasankaran. Drivers will have three options to choose from: 30% of the revenue from the trips while the maintenance and fuel will borne by the vehicle owner; Rs 15,000 per month + 10% of the earnings; pay Rs 50,000 upfront and buy the car for which Utoo will help with financing.   Drivers can bring their cars but have to meet standards set by UTOO. "The idea is to have new and efficient cars to ensure lesser costs to maintenance and fuel," said Sivasankaran. "My goal is not to have the biggest marketshare, but to have a profitable company quarter after quarter."
Ahmedabad: Gujarat high court on Thursday sought an affidavit from the state government with details of the measures it had taken to implement the 2013 Gujarat Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act. In response to allegations that all infrastructure and appointments existed only on paper and that there was practically nothing in place to deal with an emergency, the division bench of Justice M R Shah and Justice A S Supehia asked for an affidavit affirmed by director of State Fire Services, along with reports of all regional fire officers. The high court asked to explain "whether any infrastructure and facilities have been provided to the regional fire officers to enable them to perform their duties cast under the Act of 2013".While hearing the contempt petition, advocate Amit Panchal claimed that the appointments were on paper and, except appointment, nothing further had been done. He also expressed a number of grievances and the court asked him to place all information in an affidavit.The division bench has also asked Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to file an affidavit in two weeks explaining what action had been taken after it issued notices to 999 high-rise buildings, for lack of a Fire No Objection Certificats (NOCs) or unrenewed NOCs.AMC was asked to explain the issue after Panchal complained about inaction by the civic body against defaulters. He also highlighted an order passed by the high court in 1997 in which the court had praised the AMC for issuing such notices and ordered it to regularly follow up to implement building bye-laws. Panchal complained that 19 years on the situation had not changed a bit.
HYDERABAD: If you have applied for a US visa and have been waiting for a long time to get an appointment for an interview, yours is not a lone case. The US Consulate Gen eral office in Hyderabad is facing an acute shortage of staff and with the number of applications mounting by , the situation may not get better anytime soon. "While we plan to shift to new consulate by 2020, we have asked the government of India to allow us to appoint more consular officers so that the waiting period can be reduced," said B Jamison Fouss, the chief consular officer at a media conference at the US Consulate General in Hyderabad on Thursday.Speaking about the staff crunch, Foss, said, "There are only seven to 10 consular officers to review nearly 700 to 1,000 applications per day. Due to shortage of staff, there is higher waiting period during the peak season.Each consular of ficer interviews an applicant for about two to three minutes," said Fouss. He added that for the kind of visa applications influx in Hyderabad, nearly 20 more consular officers were required. The consulate has been planning to increase counsellor windows to 51 from the 16 at the new office.The American consulate in the city issued the highest number of student visas in India between July 2014 and July 2015, so much so, Hyderabad was ranked the fourth highest in the world in terms of number of student visas issued during the period.According to officials, the US Consulate General in Hyderabad has seen a near 80 per cent growth in the number of student visa applications in the last five years, with hundreds of students opting to pursue higher education in US colleges each year. While the waiting period during off-season is two to three weeks, officials said that it goes up to over a month during the April to August window, owing to higher number of student applications.Even overseas education consultancies in the city have observed higher waiting period in the visa process. "Students have to start their process quite early during the admission period as from the application day to the interview day, it often takes nearly four weeks," said Nisaar Ahmed Khan, chief operating officer of People's Career Overseas Education consultancy in Khairatabad.Meanwhile, when asked about the deportation of several Indian students by the Customs and Border Security officials in the US, Fouss said, "During the visa process, we only check documents pertaining to the students' education and their finances.Our consular officers verify the documents and issue the visa if everything seems to be fine. We don't have any safe net policy in place."Several students had found fault with the visa process when they were sent back to the country after getting admissions into fake universities. Speaking on the occasion of student visa day, Brain Salverson, a consulate official warned students to stay away from brokers and agents who assure quick visa."Students must consult the EducationUSA which is the only US government authorised consultancy that provides free consultancy about courses, universities, applications and visa process to the US," said Salverson.
Bengaluru: To solve the problems plaguing India's startup capital, we needn't look westwards. All we need to do is to turn back the pages of history and understand how the city's founders designed and maintained areas like the Peteand the oval fort 480 years ago. This is what architect and researcher Yashaswini Sharmabelieves. In her book — Bangalore: The Early City (AD 1537-1799) — released recently, the author has traced its early development through archival records, architectural remains and street patterns. Yashaswini, who holds an M.Phil degree in architectural research from Cardiff University, UK, told TOI solutions to the city's woes should come from its origin. Excerpts:    What got you interested in early Bengaluru?    The fact that I am from Bengaluru. The research for the book was an extension of my M.Phil thesis at Cardiff. My aim was to understand the architecture, nature, culture and settlement pattern prevalent centuries ago. Traditionally, mega towns have been built along river beds or developed as ports. I wanted to understand the factors that motivated Bengaluru's founder to establish a town here despite the area lacking a perennial source of water.    What is your understanding of the early life of the city?    Bengaluru, a major centre for trade and commerce, has this characteristic since its inception. The city originated as a market town, with its founder Kempegowdainviting traders from across the country to settle here in 1537 AD. He designed the Pete (the area extending from KR Market to KG Roadtoday), which was organized into different zones that I term sub-petes which accommodated various traders and communities. These zones housed religious establishments as well. Since the town was located along the southern highway, trade must have been among the factors that drew the founder to the location. The Pete, which comprised a multi-cultural society, developed into a major city within a short span of time. This means the city was cosmopolitan right from the beginning.   Your impressions of the architecture...   I wanted to understand whether there was anything unique to the city's architecture. Sadly, many crucial heritage links have given way to new structures. Only a few slices of history, like the remains of oval fort, temples in the Pete area and old records and photographs can give some insight to researchers. A city, which boasted of primarily Hindu architecture, incorporated Islamic influences over the years. Tipu's summer palace, in fact, is inspired by Shivappa Nayaka's palace in Shivamoggaand is a a deliberate attempt at a fusion between the Hindu methods of planning and Islamic art. The temples are provincial versions of the Vijayanagar style of architecture. Archival photographs show the houses were mainly thatched and flat-roofed.    How did nature play a role in design those days?    The founder and people of the city seemed to worship nature. Town planning didn't go against the topography. Water from the erstwhile Dharmambhudhiand Sampangitanks was drawn by the citizens through square troughs or basins constructed at convenient points. The drainage from the Pete was collected into a single channel and released towards the south at a distance of about 3 miles, near Sunnakaltank, where it was used for agricultural purposes. According to a 1791 map, excess water from Dharmambudhi, Karanji and Siddikatte tanks fed the moat around the Pete and oval fort. Nature was an integral part of religion. Water was considered a precious resource and not wasted. Trees were also treated in a similar manner; this is seen in the route taken by the Karaga procession even today. All rulers who came to power didn't dismantle the town mainly because it was a successful centre of commerce. In fact, they added gardens and tanks.   What lessons can the present Bengaluru learn from its past?   We should learn from our vibrant heritage; only then can we arrive at solutions for the problems we have created. We are erasing crucial links to the city's heritage and replacing them with disconnected structures. Undertaking constructions on lake bed is nothing but short-sighted and negligent behaviour. There is nothing wrong in studying other modern methodologies but we cannot get the answer without understanding the city's origin.
Chennai: Police on Thursday arrested a printing press worker, his two sons and two other relatives for killing a 35-year-old law student whose younger brother was allegedly in a relationship with the press worker's wife. The woman is missing since May 18.   Vijaykumar and his sonV Abhishek, along with Mariand Nagarajwere sent to jail for killing Nageswara Rao in Vadapalanion Wednesday, while Vijayakumar's younger son, a minor who was also involved in the murder, was sent to a juvenile home.   Police said Kowsalya, 35, who lived with her husband and sons on Rajamudaliar Street, went missing on May 18 and the family filed a complaint with police.   Rajesh, a realtor with three children, often visited the family and Vijayakumar suspected he was having an affair with Kowsalya, police said.   "The suspicion grew when Rajeshwas found missing since the day Kowsalya disappeared," said a police officer.   On Wednesday night, Vijayakumar, his sons and Mari and Nagaraj went to a birthday party on Kumaran Colony Main Roadwhere they saw Rajesh and his elder brother Nageswara Rao.   Abhishek picked up an argument with Rajesh, demanding to know where his mother was. Soon, they exchanged blows. As the others came to help Abhishek, Rao intervened when Vijayakumar and his family dropped a stone on his head.   Some visitors to the party rushed Rao to a private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.   Abhishek, and his younger brother too were injured in the clash. While the elder sibling was admitted to a private hospital in Vadapalani, the younger one, who suffered a head injury, was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital.   Rao, who worked for a private firm, was pursuing a law degree in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh.   Police are still trying to find Kowsalya. "We are attempting to trace her with the help of the photographs given by the family," said an officer.
Hyderabad: A letter purportedly written by the AP government to Telangana chief secretary Rajiv Sharma on handing over of the buildings in the AP Secretariat on Thursday created a flutter among the government employees.The AP employees, who have been given the deadline of June 27 to relocate to upcoming capital Amaravati, have demanded that the state government come out with a clear-cut schedule on the shifting of offices. Many of them are reluctant to shift to Amaravati and have sought time.The news about the AP government writing a letter to the Telangana chief secretary has created further confusion among the employees. AP government had reportedly informed the Telangana chief secretary that it will vacate all its buildings in the secretariat except the L Block, where the office of the chief minister is located. However, senior officials in AP have not confirmed about the letter.Sources said the AP government has informed governor ESL Narasimhan about its plans to shift government offices and employees from Hyderabad to Amaravati (Vijayawada-Guntur) by June 27.AP Gazetted Officers' Association leader KV Krishnaiah refused to comment on the letter saying that he had no official information about it. He, however, demanded that the AP government should first come out with the road map on the shifting.
Bangalore, June 10 (IANS) Virtual hotel chain Nida Rooms has announced a partnership with Via.com to enable customers of the travel and hospitality industry aggregator customise holidays with a wider selection of over 3,500 hotel rooms in Asia.      "This strategic partnership enables NIDA Rooms to reach out to more travellers, as Via.com has served over 70 million guests in Asia," Kaneswaran Avili, chief wxecutive of Nida Rooms and former Chief Commercial Officer of Spicejet, said in a statement on Friday.      "Nida Rooms and Via.com hold similar offerings -- value-for-money products for customers."      Avili added that Via.com, one of the top largest online travel agency in Asia, especially in the B2B segment in India, has been introducing new offerings to customers to make the logistics for holidaying simple.      "This partnership will be a big step forward in our journey to offer the absolute best value to our customers," said V. Swaminathan, Chief Executive of Via.com that has its footpring in India, the Philippines, Indonesia, Singapore and the UAE.      Each of these countries having more than 90,000 resellers offering comprehensive travel products.      Nida Rooms partners with selected hoteliers and secures certain number of rooms. Those rooms are branded as Nida Rooms and are offered through various online channels, mainly their Web site and mobile applications in Google Play Store and Apple App Store.      "In a short span of eight months, we have secured over 3,500 hotel partners located strategically throughout Thailand, the Philippines, Indonesia and Malaysia. We will be continuously expanding our reach in Asia with immediate plans to penetrate markets like Vietnam," said Avili.      --IANS      ap/vm
Guntur: The double-decker superfast express train between Kacheguda and Guntur, which was launched amidst hype and hoopla about two years ago, could well be on its way out. Citing technical reasons, South Central Railway (SCR) has suspended the train from June 11 to June 30. Although officials claimed that the train will not be operated for 20 days, reports say they are actually planning to indefinitely terminate the day-time intercity express. The train connecting Guntur with Hyderabad leaves Kacheguda at 5.30 am and arrives here at 10.40 am. In the opposite direction, the time for departure is 12.45 pm and reaches Hyderabad at 5.55 pm. Reports say SCR has suffered losses due to poor patronage ever since the double decker train was launched in 2014. Officials assumed that the traffic would pick up in due course and continued its operations. However, the authorities have now have lost hope and are planning to move the double decker train to other sections. "The Kacheguda-Guntur intercity has all air conditioned coaches. This has forced ordinary passengers to keep away," an official observed. While the second class seating fare in express trains is just Rs155, the fare in double-decker AC express between Guntur and Secunderabad is Rs465. Despite many people preferring to travel only in air-conditioned coaches, the decision to have only AC coaches was not a wise one in hindsight. "Issues like lesser leg space and narrow seats too are the main reasons for low occupancy on most days," Ponnuri Murahari Rao, a merchant who regularly travels to Hyderabad, told TOI.Sources said that SCR is not even earning 30 per cent of the targeted revenues from the double-decker. Officials may well run it via Vijayawada or completely dedicate it to operations between Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam. The railway safety commissioner has reportedly been asked to look into the feasibility of this route. In fact, double decker trains with all AC coaches have not fared well across the country. "They can be made profitable with the addition of a few second seating or general coaches," according to K Srinivasa Rao, former member of the zonal railway users consultative committee (ZRUCC). Slamming the officials for not conducting a study before launching the all AC coach trains, he emphasised: "We need to redesign our plans to make the operations profitable as most of the trains are running packed to capacity." Senior divisional commercial manager Umamaheswara Rao, however, said that they have cancelled the train only for 20 days.
Bhopal, Jun 10 () With an aim to ensure victory of Congress nominee Vivek Tankha from Madhya Pradesh in the biennial polls to the Rajya Sabha, lunch and dinner diplomacy besides one-to-one contact with the party legislators is in full swing here.  The polling for the biennial polls will be held tomorrow at Vidhan Sabha.  Senior Congress leaders and former Union Ministers Kamal Nath and Sushil Kumar Shinde are camping in the state capital to ensure the victory of Tankha, who is short of just one vote to sail through in the polls.  "A lunch was on at the posh hotel in the city where Congress MLAs were present. Besides four BSP legislators were taking part in it," a senior Congress leader said.  Soon after the arrival of Nath last evening here, he interacted with all the MLAs one-to-one at the state Congress office and also took part in the dinner at the party headquarters.  Nath will be hosting a dinner in the evening for Congress and other legislators at his official residence here at Shyamla Hills area, the sources said.  "Everything is going on perfectly and as planned. Mock polling will also be conducted so that legislators will not commit any error in exercising their franchise in the crucial elections," State Congress President, Arun Yadav told .  The Congress camp which is short of just one vote is confident of the victory of Tankha as Bahujan Samaj Party has already issued a whip to its four MLAs to vote in favour of him.  The Assembly has a total strength of 230 MLAs. BJP had 166 members followed by Congress 57, BSP 4 and Independents 3.  However, with the death of BJP's Nepanagar MLA Rajendra Dadu yesterday and the Supreme Court's decision barring another saffron party MLA Rajendra Meshram from voting, the party has 164 votes in its kitty now. MAS LAL DK SMJ
Bhopal: Failing in his efforts to convince BSP MLAs to vote for BJP-backed Independent candidate Vinod Gothia, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday held meetings with cabinet colleagues while exploring other options for securiing the third seat in the biennial elections for Rajya Sabha. Chouhan is more concerned about the 'lunch diplomacy' of Congress nominee Vivek Tankha who invited four BSP MLAs for lunch at a plush hotel in Bhopal on Tuesday and expressed his gratitude towards the party for supporting him. BSP MLAs -- Satya Prakash Sakhwar, Balveer Dandotia, Usha Chaudhary and Sheela Tyagi --- have assured Tankha of their party's support to the Congress and reiterated their commitment that none of them will defy party diktats. This has cleared the air on the BSP's support to the Congress. "It was a courtesy meeting with BSP MLAs as they have extended support to the Congress," said Tankha.To plan their strategy, members of the state BJP unit reached Delhi on Wednesday and discussed various possibilities . The leaders have also clarified on their equation with BSP and three Independent MLAs. "Earlier, it was surmised that two BSP MLAs may support Independent candidate Gothia. However, the Congress seems to be more convincing as far as alliance with the BSP goes," said sources in the BJP.
Bengaluru: From this year, the department of Public Instruction (DPI) will make reimbursement of fees of students pursuing education in private schools under the Right to Education (RTE) quota through online. The fee will be credited directly to the bank accounts of schools.   This is expected to address complaints from schools that some block education officers (BEOs) are demanding bribe to reimburse the fees. Till last year, BEOs were reimbursing it to school authorities by issuing cheques in two installments---in October and November . For class 1 students, the fee is Rs 11,848, while for pre-school sections it is Rs 5,924 per child. Every year, DPI reimburses it in two installments in October and November. But there were many instances of delay in payment to many schools.   K Anand, primary education director, DPI, told TOI that reimbursement will be done online using a software developed by the Reserve Bank of Indiato avoid involvement of BEOs in the process. "If the payment is done online, once schools submit their audit report, the entire reimbursement will be made in one shot, instead of two installments," he added.   He said Karnataka, probably, is the first state in the country to reimburse RTE fees online. There are around 1.15 lakh seats under RTE quota this year for which the department has received 2.74 lakh applications.   D Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Government Recognized English Medium Schools in Karnataka, welcomed the decision and said BEOs had been harassing private schools. "The government should withdraw the practice of reimbursing RTE fees based on the audit report of schools as the RTE Act has no provision for the same. The audit report gives only the average money spent on each child by schools. Schools which spend less than the RTE fees fixed by the government get lesser reimbursement. Many schools which spend more than the RTE fee are not getting back the entire amount they have spent," he said. He also urged the government to increase the fees.
Amritsar: Incidents of disobedience by Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) employees in the recent past have raised a question mark over the independent functioning of the committee, which is drawing flak for allegedly taking decisions under the influence of Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal).The latest in the series is Gurpreet Singh, a sewadar, who was transferred to Lucknow by SGPC after he gave 'sehra' (flower garland) and patasha parshad on Monday to Baljit Singh Daduwal, chief of Panthic Sewa Lehar, who was appointed 'jathedar' of Takht Damdama Sahib by 'Sarbat Khalsa'. Daduwal had paid obeisance at the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple, which irked SGPC officials and they ordered Gurpreet's transfer to Lucknow. Talking to TOI on Wednesday, Gurpreet said, "I didn't make any mistake. We offer 'sehra' and 'patasha parshad' in routine to many devotees but I don't know why I am being transferred." He said come what may he wouldn't join his new posting.When contacted, SGPC additional secretary D S Bedi and Golden Temple manager Sulakhan Singh refrained from answering why Gurpreet was transferred. Reacting to the SGPC's decision, Daduwal said it was the most unfortunate incident. "This is not disobedience of employees but a beginning of revolt in SGPC by the staff who are being persecuted, forced to obey dictates of a few powerful in SAD(B)," he said.Earlier, Panj Pyaras (five beloved ones) had refused to accept SGPC orders and left the committee. Later, Balbir Singh Farash, ardasiya at Golden temple, had also refused to join his new posting after he was transferred for refusing to give 'siropa' (robe of honour) to chief minister Parkash Singh Badal in Golden Temple on June 3. In the past, a young committee employee had thrown his resignation letter on the face of SGPC president Avtar Singh Makkar, expressing his resentment for suspending Panj Pyaras. Soon after, Makkar had held a meeting with SGPC employees asking them to control their emotions and sentiments and not to make public their display.India head of UK-based NGO, Sikh Relief, R P Singh said, "We are honouring Balbir Singh with 'sriopa' and a financial assistance of Rs 1 lakh on June 10." He said he was still not aware of Gurpreet's case but would like to extend every possible help to him.
Bengaluru: The International Institute of Information Technology, Bangalore (IIIT-B) and the Indian Institute of Management Bangalore (IIM-B) will share their expertise in technology and management to nurture startups. Both the institutions on Thursday signed an MoU under which they will provide technology and business mentorship to facilitate technology startups and entrepreneurs to achieve sustainable business growth. "IIM-B and IIIT-B recognize their mutual interest in influencing the technology startup ecosystem and the importance of collaborating with each other to help technology ventures become appropriate business models," said Suresh Bhagavatula, chairperson of NS Raghavan Centre for Entrepreneurial Learning (NSRCEL) at IIM-B.S Sadagopan, director, IIIT-B, said the IIIT-B Innovation Centre, started in 2009, is incubating 17 startup companies that are developing innovative IT-based products to solve problems in healthcare, transportation and energy."The NS Raghavan Centre for Entrepreneurial Learning (NSRCEL) at IIM-B is an open incubation centre that nurtures early-stage startups and incubates 18 companies focused on providing sustainable solutions. NSRCEL's aim is to implement ideas through a structured mentoring programme.
CHENNAI: Acknowledging the vulnerability of teachers who face brash parents daily , the Madras high court has declined to quash the case of criminal intimidation and harassment registered against a lawyer who reportedly taunted teachers of a Coonoor-based school and even filmed the women teachers despite objections.Justice P N Prakash, dismissing the petitions of advocate G Manohar Raj and his wife, Roseline Mary , said: "Parents are the first teachers for every child. The child would look at them as role models and would imbibe their qualities and character.Manohar, who belongs to a noble profession, cannot conduct himself in an unbecoming manner and bring disrepute to the legal fraternity."The couple's son was a student of Holy Innocents High School in Wellington in The Nilgiris. His teachers sent for his parents to meet the principal. On September 21, 2009, the couple met the principal but spoke very rudely to her.The principal, a nun, said in her complaint that Manohar had told her that he was a leading lawyer in the high court and that if complaints were made against the conduct of his son, he would get the school closed down.When the principal summoned the boy's teachers to explain his conduct to the parents, the duo prevented their entry and Manohar started video-graphing school teachers in his mobile camera. His rude behaviour and abusive attitude forced the school management to lodge a police complaint against the couple.The couple filed a petition seeking to quash the case against them. Rejecting their plea, Justice Prakash said: "The facts in this case are indeed sordid, and they amply demonstrate the vulnerability of today's teaching community ."
Chennai: Leader of the opposition in Tamil Nadu and DMK treasurer M K Stalin has been invited by the Seychelles government to participate in the India Day celebrations on October 4."Seychelles tourism and culture minister Alain St Ange met Stalin at his residence on Thursday and invited him to participate in the India Day celebrations," said a statement released by Stalin's office. Honourary consul of the Republic of Seychelles M S Sai and other officials were present.Seychelles, an island nation in the Indian Ocean, has a high percentage of Indians.
Bengaluru, June 9 (IANS) German technologies, products, solutions and services company Freudenberg was on Thursday upbeat on Indian operations with plans to invest Rs 100 crore in Mysore.   "Our main focus areas are automotive, construction, food and pharma," said Freudenberg regional representative Jorg Matthias Grossmann.   Aimed at upgrading and expanding manufacturing and R&D facilities, Freudenberg invested Rs 68 crore in 2015.   Major chunk of the investments were concentrated on the production site, labs and warehouse of the company's chemical factory in Mysore.   Specialty lubricating oils, greases, pastes, aerosols and release agents under the name of Chem-Trend, OKS and KlAber Lubrication brands are some of its products.   Freudenberg Sealing Technologies has also expressed its commitment to India.   The German company has been operating in India since 2001 through the joint venture Sigma Freudenberg NOKin Mohali, and a new plant was erected in February 2015 at Basma, with 2,000 employees to produce seals for Indian and overseas market.   "These two major investments with a total amount of more than Rs. 290 crore in the past few years underscore our long-term commitment to India. Together with our partners, we will expand our presence and continue to invest in India," said Grosmann.   "At our sites in Mysore, Pune and Mohali, the R&D facilities develop products tailored to the needs of our local customers. It is part of our group strategy to make globally developed innovations suitable for regional use," he said.   The company's Indian sales increased by 3.7 per cent from Rs 1,497 crore in 2014 to Rs 1,553 crore in 2015.   "We have completed another year of profitable and sustainable growth. And our companies in India will continue to grow, much faster than in most other regions of the world," said Grossman.   Freudenberg established four R&D centres, 14 production sites and employed 2,800 full time associates at 50 locations in India.   --IANS   sth/ahm/dg
AHMEDABAD: A fully grown lioness was killed in Junagadh district after getting trapped in a barbed wire when it tried to enter a farm house, forest officials said today. The incident took place at Vokala village in Dungar (north) range of Junagadh forest area last night when the lioness got ensnared in a wire fencing set up at a farm and died after getting fatally hurt in the abdomen, Chief Conservator of Forest, Junagadh S K Mehta told . The officials obtained her body after being informed by one Rakesh Domadia, whose farm is located near the site where the incident took place, he said. According to the officer, the body was sent to the forensic science laboratory and a post-mortem report was awaited. Farm owners in the area generally set up such barbed fencing to avoid blue bull, wild boar and other animals from crossing over to the farm land and destroy standing crops.
Agra: Most police stations in the city have encroached on the adjoining roads, footpaths and other public properties to store seized vehicles. Even in the congested lanes, where space is at a premium, one can find these machines parked and gathering rust.  This kind of encroachment is visible at the police stations in New Agra, Sadar, Mantolaand Rakab Ganj and Itmad Ud-Daulah — to name a few.  Some station officers (SO) have even indicated that if these automobiles are shifted elsewhere, it would help beautify their premises. This free space, they said, can then be used for other purposes like "routine gathering" and other official work.  In this regard, New Agra police station SO Ashok Kumar Singh said: "Due to lack of space, the vehicles have been parked on the road. The abandoned ones can be disposed after six months, but the others that are involved in legal cases can be disposed off only after a court order."  Sadar police station SO Dharmendra Chauhan echoed the same reason for the encroachment and added that "It is not in our hands".  The M M Gate Police Station SO, Anuj Malik, claimed that he had recently auctioned some of these automobiles. The officer complained how even their staff can't find space to park their vehicles. "We are bound by the law to keep these machines in custody till legal proceedings are on," Malik said.  SO Malik added: "If the vehicles were shifted to another place, it would clear space the station premises. This area can then be used for routine gathering of staff."  An official source informed that there are three warehouses in the city where such automobiles can be kept — one at police line and two at Sadar Bazar police station. "All three are full. We now need a new warehouse to store seized vehicles," the source added.  SP (city) Sushil Ghule told TOI: "We are trying to dispose the abandoned vehicles that have piled up around police stations. But cannot dispose those embroiled in court cases. The administration is trying to identify land where these machines can be kept. This yard will be the first of its kind in Uttar Pradesh."  Police yards to store seized automobiles are found in most countries.
Bengaluru: His only crime was accidentally bumping into a police constable while cycling down the road to go pay the electricity bill in Yeshwanthpur, but 13-year-old Athwath Gahan has paid a heavy price for it indeed.The enraged police constable allegedly caught hold of the boy by the scruff of his neck and slammed his head into the handlebars of the cycle, breaking three of his teeth and injuring his jaw and lips. When the boy went home with a swollen face, his mother knew something was terribly wrong; as soon as she heard what happened, she rushed to confront the constable, who denied the incident.Despite her being dissuaded by neighbours against taking the legal route, the Yeshwanthpur police stood by her and the woman filed a complaint against the constable, who has been at large since. The constable in question is K Venkatesh, 28, who has reportedly been attached to the Yeshwanthpur police for the last six years. Sources said Venkatesh had a history of public assault, and that he had also been warned several times following various complaints by locals.The incident took place a few days ago around 2.30 pm when Gahan's mother, Nageshwari, handed the boy some money and sent him to the Bescom outlet near their house to pay their electricity bill. The family are residents of BK Nagar; Gahan is a student of standard eight at a government school, while his father works at odd jobs for a living. His mother is a homemaker. As the boy was cycling near Yeshwanthpur mini bazaar circle, he reportedly brushed past PC Venkatesh on the road.Infuriated, the constable allegedly abused the boy and grabbed his neck from the back. He then proceeded to smash the child's head against the handlebars of the cycle in an attempt to "teach him a lesson".When the child rushed home bleeding and in tears, he recounted the assault to his mother, who rushed to the spot and found Venkatesh. When she asked him why he hit Gahan, Venkatesh reportedly stayed mum and refused to apologise; so Nageshwari went straight to the Yeshwanthpur police station."The boy was taken to KC General Hospital for treatment, but was referred to a private hospital since two of his front teeth had shattered completely, and another was partially broken. He was administered pain killers and medicines for the swollen cheeks and lips, and a dentist put a cap on one of his teeth for Rs 10,000. He has been told to visit the hospital regularly for the next one month and then get a cap for the other tooth. He is able to speak properly, but can only chew food at the side of this mouth. The boy's father is a coolie and the family is not well-to-do, so this has burnt a big hole in their pockets. Relatives of the constable visited the boy's family saying they would pay for the expenses, but have not done so till now," a senior police official told Mirror.When contacted, Nageshwari claimed she did not wish to comment as the family was undergoing enough trouble already."We had received quite a few complaints against t Venkatesh in the past for his rude behaviour and tendency to hit members of the public, and he had been issued many strict warnings. This latest assault on the young boy was the last straw. He has been at large since the complaint against him, and we are making efforts to trace him," the official added.A case has been registered under section 325 of the IPC for punishment for voluntarily causing grievous hurt.
CHENNAI: Chief minister J Jayalalithaa on Friday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take steps to release 21 Tamil Nadu fishermen and their boats from Sri Lankan custody.      "I urge your personal intervention in this matter and request you to direct the ministry of external affairs to take up the matter with the Sri Lankan authorities in a concrete and decisive manner so as to secure the immediate release of our 21 fishermen and 92 fishing boats, including six fishermen and their mechanised fishing boat detained on June 9," Jayalalithaa said in a letter to Modi.      "It is highly disheartening to note that our fishermen are facing daily threats of harassment and abduction at the hands of the Sri Lankan navy while fishing in their traditional fishing waters in the Palk Bay," Jayalalithaa said.      "I would like to remind you that 15 fishermen apprehended earlier this month are still languishing in Sri Lankan custody. The Sri Lankan strategy of not releasing the boats while releasing the fishermen and thus throttling the livelihood of the fishermen is causing immense frustration amongst the fishermen of Tamil Nadu," the chief minister said.      Jayalalithaa has written several letters to Modi on this issue. Often, the letters are written soon after fishermen from the state are arrested by the Sri Lankan naval agencies.
Bengaluru (Karnataka), June 10 (ANI): In the wake of sting operations showing the MLAs accepting money to vote in the Rajya Sabha polls, Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizer Ananth Kumar on Friday welcomed the Election Commission's decision to order a CBI probe against the guilty in 'cash for vote' allegations.  Demanding a thorough investigation into the matter, Kumar told ANI that horse trading is an old habit of the Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) leaders.  "I welcome the decision of the Central Election Commission of ordering a CBI probe in the matter. Horse trading has been an old practice of both Congress and JD(S). There has to be a thorough investigation and whoever has become a prey to this horse trading should be brought to book," said Kumar.  Taking a strict view of the allegations, the Election Commission has asked the Centre to hand over the investigation to the CBI, while directing it to register FIR against MLA Mallikarjuna Khuba and others involved.  "The whole matter be entrusted to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for carrying out a stringent investigation to punish all those who may be involved in such nefarious activities," the Election Commission said in its statement.  "The Returning Officer for the biennial election to Rajya Sabha by members of the Karnataka Legislative Assembly to file an FIR against Mallikarjuna Khuba, and others involved, under the provisions of section 171B of the Indian Penal Code and the relevant provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988," the statement added. (ANI)
Ahmedabad chapter of CII's Young Indians (YI) on Thursday organized 2nd session of 'Super Startups-Inspiring' event. Two social startups - G-Auto and Ability on Wheels -showcased their presentations at CII House.  Drive against malnourishment: Samvedana, an NGO, introduced a 100-day drive 'Sattva' - An initiative towards eradicating malnourishment. In all, 805 malnourished children will benefit.  Cept prof appointed coordinator: Jigna Desai, assistant professor and area chair for conservation at faculty of architecture, Cept University is appointed coordinator for the National Scientific Committee (NSC) for historic towns and villages at International Council for Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS), India.
Ahmedabad: Popat Sutreja was forcibly retired in 2014 from the post of deputy district manager in Gujarat State Civil Supply Corporation Ltd on the ground that he was not fit to work due to cancer. His unauthorized leave was cited to make him retire in 2014. Gujarat high court has cancelled the government's decision to give him premature retirement and ordered consequential benefits be given to his heirs. This is because Sutreja passed away while the litigation was pending.In this case, Sutreja refused promotion in 2012 citing social reasons and that he was not well. He even sought a transfer from Junagadh to Ahmedabad, when he underwent his first round of treatment. He later went back to Junagadh to work in 2013.In February 2014, the department ordered him to take premature retirement on the ground that he had remained on leave for 49 days without any prior permission. On the other hand, Sutreja claimed that the medical board had never declared him unfit for work.Sutreja lost his case before a single-judge bench. After the case came up before the division bench, he died and his heirs were made party in the proceedings.After hearing the case at length, a division bench of Chief Justice R S Reddy and Justice V M Pancholi observed that instead of initiating inquiry into his absence, he was directly made to retire.
Ahmedabad: Three women and a man from Ahmedabad were arrested on Thursday allegedly for blackmailing and cheating a 50-year-old man from Rajkot. They had allegedly drugged the man, clicked indecent photographs and blackmailed him for Rs 5 lakh by threatening to go public with the pictures.A complaint in this regard was registered by victim Parsotam Marviya, a resident of Nana Mava in Rajkot. The police arrested Khokhra resident Manjula alias Mona Vaghela 37, Daisy Makwan, 45, as well as Shila Christian 54, and Michael Joseph 25, all residents of Maninagar.Police said, "Three and a half years ago, Parsotam's wife died, leaving behind five daughters and two sons. His family recently decided to get him married again. They received a call from Shila, a matchmaker. She told Parsotam that she would help him find the perfect match and invited him to Ahmedabad."Shila introduced the 50-year-old to three girls. "He rejected them and returned to Rajkot. She once again called him to Ahmedabad and introduced him to a couple of women, including Manjula. Once again, Parsotam rejected them all. Two days later, Manjula called Parsotam and said that she wanted to marry him despite her family's objections. Parsotam cut the call. Some days later, she called again and claimed to be in love with him. She threatened to kill herself and write a suicide note mentioning his name if he did not visit her in Ahmedabad."Scared, Parsotam did as asked. "She then forced him to go to Mt Abu with another girl for company. They reached Abu on May 21 and stopped at a hotel where Manjula had booked a room earlier. In the room, Manjula offered him water to drink. He fell unconscious. When he woke up an hour later, his jewellery and Rs 12,000 in cash was missing. Someone told him that Manjula had scooted with the jewellery."Parsotam returned to Ahmedabad and called Manjula but she did not pick up the call. Police said, "Parsotam received a call from a man who claimed to have indecent photographs of him with a girl in Abu, and threatened to make it public if the 50-year-old did not cough up Rs 25 lakh."Parsotam agreed to give them Rs 5 lakh. "He took ornaments and cash from the house to give to Manjula and her gang who were coming to Rajkot to collect it. His son spotted him and questioned him. When Parsotam told him the entire story, his son convinced him to go to cops. A trap was laid and the accused were caught red-handed, accepting money," said Inspector B T Vadhiya of Rajkot Taluka police. Police have recovered jewellery, cash and car from the accused.
BENGALURU: Bengaluru Development Minister K J George on Friday has cautioned Optic Fibre Cable service providers in the city to declare cables across the city, which are unauthorized installation from them, within 10 days. "If the service providers fail to do so, the BBMP authorities would cut such illegal connections," he added.        During a related meeting with all the stakeholders, George expressed concern over the havoc played by these service providers by installing cables in an unorganised way and the same have become a threat to beauty and aesthetics of the city in addition to causing damage to the city roads. "There is a need to have a systematic way of installation of cables and the service providers should concentrate in this direction," he felt.
BENGALURU: The two Maharashtra Ekikarna Samiti (MES) backed MLAs Sambhaji Patil and Arvind Chandrakant Patil on Friday faced a language barrier in casting their votes at the MLC elections.The two MLCs, who came together to vote at Vidhana Soudha were dumbstruck when they saw the ballot papers in Kannada.Both MLAs were vocal in their disapproval of the language of written communication being Kannada.They told the staff they did not know how to read Kannada. Both Sambhaji and Aravind sought assistance from the Secretariat staff in understanding the ballot paper.In the end, the secretariat staff coached the two Marathi MLAs on how to write their preferential votes in Kannada script.Assistance from partymen, as few MLAs were unable to cast their votes aloneBENGALURU: The MLC elections on Friday saw the JD(S) and Congress MLAs seek assistance from their fellow legislators.During voting, Holenarsipura MLA H D Revanna and Kunigal MLA D Nagarajaiah both conferred with each other before casting their votes as they were unable to grasp the ballot paper format.At the other end, Belur MLA Y N Rudresh Gowda was said to be unwell and casted his ballot with the assistance of fellow party member and MLC Bose Raju. While Raju completed the formalities by entering Gowda's name in the official register, the Belur MLA entered his preferential voting and cast the ballot.
Gorakhpur: The Central government will spent Rs 1 lakh crore in one year on construction of roads in Uttar Pradesh, Union minister Nitin Gadkari said while interacting with journalists through video conferencing on Thursday. Focussing on waterways, Gadkari said that Rs 170 crore will be spent on 1,620 km waterway project in Ganga from Varanasi to Haldia. The project will be completed in 26 months." Talking about 345 km waterway project in Ghaghra from Faizabad to Ballia, he said that Rs 105 crore will be spent.On the construction of four-lane NH 29 connecting Gorakhpur, Varanasi, Mau and Ghazipur route, the minister said that the initial work related to the project is complete and the construction work will began in 15 days.When he was asked about the earlier announcement of Ram Janki road and bypass road from Kalesar to Jungle Kaudia, he said that the DPR for 218 km Ram Janki Marg from Ayodhya to Janakpur via Kalwari and Gola is ready. "We have not got UP government NOC so far. We have also sent reminder to chief minister. As soon as we get the NOC, the work will start," he said. The work of Kalesar-Jungle Kaudia project will start in a month. NHAI project manager A K Kushwaha and other officials were present.
Chennai: Public grievances regarding changes in the family cards, lack of proper functioning of fair price shops, PDS commodities supplied, unfair trade practices and deficiencies in the goods sold by private sector are to be redressed at civil supplies grievances redressal camps to be held on June 11 in the city.Camps are to be set up at 1. Chennai Middle School 45 Padavattamman Koil Street, Kondithope 2.Chennai High School, 2/1,Manikandan 8th Street,Old Washermenpet. 3. Chennai Higher Secondary School, No.3, Sundaram main Street, Ganesapuram, Vyasarpadi, 4.Chennai Coporation, 104th Divisional Office, Vepery among other places.
Aurangabad: Only 78 fodder camps are operational in the scarcity-hit Marathwada region as the number dropped significantly this month as compared to the peak summer months.While the need for livestock, especially bullocks, in farms ahead of the kharif season has been cited as the reason for reducing the number of fodder camps, advocacy groups say the farmers still need feed for their cattle. Around 367 fodder camps were operating by the mid of last month in the parched districts of Beed, Osmanabad and Latur. The state government had also sanctioned one fodder camp for Parbhani district recently in view of increased demand. As per official data, Beed district currently has only 43 fodder camps as against 272 by around mid of May. Nearly 31,427 cattle, including 1,852 calves, have taken shelter in these camps. Osmanabad district is left with only 29 camps, as compared to 89 last month, while only five fodder camps are operational in Latur district, as against five last month. The recently started fodder camp at Parbhani has given shelter to 1,594 cattle. A total of 60,158 cattle have benefited from 78 fodder camps operational in these four districts. Nearly 3.67 lakh cattle had taken shelter in 367 fodder camps that were running in three Marathwada districts last month by May 19. Revenue officials said that farmers have been taking out their animals from fodder camps ahead of the monsoon, which has resulted in closure of many camps."Cattle are required for carrying out farming activities before the start of Kharif. Therefore, farmers are not keen on keeping their livestock at the camps. Farmers are also worried about the safety of their cattle from lightning strikes and heavy rains. So, they prefer to take them home," a revenue official said.Farmers' right leader Jayaji Suryawanshi said that farmers are compelled to take their cattle homes even if there is dearth of fodder and water back home. "They (farmers) cannot carry out sowing without bullocks. Also, at least a person or two from the family also get engaged at fodder camp if livestock is kept there, which is not feasible for farmers. Since the crisis is not over, the government should provide fodder to farmers at their doorsteps," he said.
CHENNAI: The Doctors' Association for Social Equality (DASE) on Thursday demanded that the exam papers of more than 100 government doctors, who pursued PG courses and failed in their university exams, be revaluated.Failed candidates claimed their studies were affected due to their involvement in flood relief work after last December's deluge, and wanted grace marks to be granted.During a press meet at the Chennai press club, DASE general secretary G Ravindranath said none of the students had failed in individual subjects but their total marks fell below the required aggregate. As per MCI norms, a candidate should obtain a minimum 40% in each theory paper and not less than 50% cumulatively in all four papers for PG degree examination and three papers for diploma examination."The teachers have awarded the marks for individual papers without thinking of the overall aggregate. There are students who have got one mark less than the required aggregate of 200 due to which they have to re-attempt both their theory and practical exams," complained students.A final year student of Madras Medical College said students were usually called for 24-hour duties every week and are not able to devote time completely to studies until six months before the exam. "Of the six months time, three months were taken up by flood relief work and this impacted our studies. Unlike dental students whose exams were postponed, our exams weren't, even though we requested for its postponement," said Sugandh, president of the association, adding that grace marks could be considered given the circumstances. According to the Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical University , 1397 PG degree diploma candidates appeared for the exam conducted in April 2016 and 1286 passed.The University pointed out that the same pass percentage range of 90-95% has been consistently maintained for the past three years.Meanwhile, a statement issued by the registrar of Dr MGR University , Dr S Pushkala, says that apart from following MCI norms in evaluation, a second valuation was carried out for the failed theory papers for the benefit of students. "The representation of the failed candidates can be taken for consideration and will be placed in the Governing Council (GC) of this University . The decision of the council will later be sent to the MCI for further action. The University will always stand for the students' welfare and career," the statement said. University sources noted that the decision can only be taken by the council at this point.DASE members said they are planning to stage a demonstration on June 13 along with the failed candidates if the university doesn't comply with their demand.
Ahmedabad: The inquiry into negligence by police inspector J D Dangarwala, for failing to assess the situation or prevent the riot that erupted on Tuesday night in Rakhial, has been handed to Deepan Bhadran, DCP, crime branch, sources in the police said. The city police commissioner initiated the probe after multiple police and private vehicles and an SRP outpost were torched in the riot at Morarji Chowk in Rakhial, an area then under Dangarwala's supervision. The PI has been quickly shunted out from Rakhial police station to special branch.Sources in the commissioner's office in Shahibaug said that Dangarwala was allegedly unable to gauge the volatile situation in Rakhial."The issue was being raised for a month as locals protested against the construction of a housing colony under the CM Awas Yojana at a plot near Morarji Chowk. He should have been alert to the situation," added a senior police official. Currently, there is a high court order to maintain the status quo on the land, issued in reponse to a petition by locals who claimed this was the only playground available to children in the locality.Meanwhile, the city crime branch team probing the Rakhial violence has found the alleged involvement of 18 other people, besides those already arrested, in the violence which saw police vehicles torched and burning rags thrown at police, said a crime branch official."During primary interrogation of the accused who were remanded in two-day police custody, it emerged that some locals had collected donations to organize protests against the construction of the colony," added a crime branch official.Crime branch sources said the names of a local leader and the son of a politician have emerged in the probe. "We will soon question them, as they were allegedly part of the mob that attacked the police party," said a crime branch official."A few months ago, the large Morarji Chowk maidan was the venue of the Milli Conference, which saw a large gathering of the Muslim community. This is the same ground which is shown as a playground for four schools in the vicinity. The ground is put to good public use and is central to community life ," says Saraspur resident Taufiq Pathan, a member of Morarji Chowk Hitrakshak Samiti (MCHS).What worried the committee is that police lodged complaints against the MCHS committee members who moved the high court against planned use of the Morarji Chowk ground by Gujarat Housing Board for constructing EWS housing.
CHENNAI: DMK on Friday sacked secretaries in three districts where the party lost most of the constituencies to AIADMK in the May 16 Tamil Nadu assembly election.      A statement released by party general secretary K Anbazhagan said action had been taken against secretaries of Coimbatore north, Namakkal east and Tirunelveli west districts.      Coimbatore north district secretary M Veeragopal has been replaced by former AIADMK minister and Erode west DMK candidate M Muthusamy. There were several complaints against Veeragopal from the candidates in Coimbatore district. They alleged that he had not cooperated with them during the election.      Former Union minister S Gandhiselvan has been replaced by P Elangovan as Namakkal east district secretary while P K Durairaj has been replaced by S Padamanaban as Tirunelveli west district secretary.      In the assembly election, DMK lost almost all the constituencies to AIADMK in Coimbatore district, except Singanallur. Similarly, in Namakkal the party lost most of the seats.      In Tirunelveli district, there were protests against Palayamkottai candidate P M Mohideen Khan. However, Khan won from the election.      A few days ago, the ruling AIADMK sacked several party district secretaries and other officials.
Ahmedabad: Special operation group (SOG) sleuths, on Thursday, arrested a man named Mohammed Saeed Mohammed Ali, 48, hailing from Hoyargadi in West Bengal with fake Indian currency notes worth Rs10,000. SOG officials said the fake currency notes were in denominations of Rs1,000 and Rs500. ACP, SOG, B C Solanki, said they had specific information about the accused with detailed description of his dress. "The informer had tipped us that the accused would walk through the lane near Bank Of India in Karanj area to Bhadra Plaza to circulate the fake notes in the market," added ACP Solanki. Police sources said they kept a watch in the area and identified the accused on basis of the information. "During his body search, we found fake currency notes from his pockets," added a cop.
Ahmedabad, Jun 9 () The   Gujarat government today opposed the bail plea of Patel quota agitation leader   Hardik Patel , saying he sought to spread disorder out of a "grudge" against the state government. Government pleader   Mitesh Amin was making submissions before Justice A   J Desai of Gujarat High Court. The case of sedition filed against Hardik by Surat police was justified because he was trying to challenge the police by instigating his associate,   Vipul Patel , to kill the policemen instead of committing suicide, the government lawyer said. He also cited phone call records in which Hardik is heard "tutoring" Vipul by asking him to tell the police he (Hardik) never asked him to kill policemen, a day after he made the first statement in front of TV reporters. Vipul had threatened to kill himself over the demand of   OBC quota for the Patel community. Amin said Hardik made the statement (about killing the cops) even when Vipul had, a day before, withdrew his threat of suicide, because Hardik wanted to "spread disturbance and create law and order problem because of a grudge against the government" after the police action at GMDC ground in Ahmedabad where he had held a mega rally in August 2015. Hardik is also facing a sedition case in Ahmedabad. He approached the high court for bail after the lower courts refused him bail. KA PD KRK ZMN
Tadikonda: Vehicles zip through the narrow streets of this village round-the-clock and government offices which formerly wore a deserted look after sunset now remain open till late in the night as senior officials may suddenly choose to make a surprise visit. Grocery shops and panwalas are looking to make a quick buck while small hotels, housed in thatched rooms, witness rendezvous between realtors and brokers quite often. Tadikonda is much in demand primarily because it is the constituency headquarters of the capital city area. However, the locals are not happy with this unexpected buzz. The village, with a population of about 18,000, has just one main road to connect it with Amaravati which people coming via Guntur cannot avoid.Velagapudi where the interim government complex is coming up is 18 km away. "Initially, we felt happy about the capital city being in the vicinity. We thought that it will ensure rapid development here but all that has happened in the last one and a half years is the passers-by dumping a lot of dust and dirt," rued a villager P Satyanarayana. With the village gaining little from increased property values and demand for rented accommodation, people have much to complain. Their main grouse is that Tadikonda was not upgraded even into a town. Despite Guntur having so many towns, Tadikonda is the only constituency headquarters in the district which could not get the tag of municipality. The locals said that even drinking water is being released once in a week. With groundwater levels dipping to an all-time low, borewells too have dried up leaving the villagers at the panchayat's mercy. "We hoped for better fortunes at least after the announcement about Amaravati. Unfortunately, no leader is really serious about development of our village," fumed Mallikarjuna Rao, a cool drink shop owner. Villagers have urged the government to widen the main road to at least 40 ft from the existing 18 ft. Although officials considered laying a bypass to free the village from traffic chaos, the farmers strongly opposed the project due to the fear of losing their lands."Once a bypass is laid, no one will come to our village. It will be alienated from development," said TDP activist Subbarao. The poor are forced to depend on the government general hospital in Guntur even in emergencies as doctors are not available at the local primary health centre. "All the senior officials including the district collector might have journeyed through this place thousands of times in the last two years. Do we need to tell them our grievances again and again?" fumed G James. He expressed concern that the village, if not developed urgently, would be left in the lurch in the future as the focus would shifted to the capital city.
Chennai: The Doctors' Association for Social Equality (DASE) on Thursday demanded that the exam papers of more than 100 government doctors, who pursued PG courses and failed in their university exams, be revaluated.   Failed candidates claimed their studies were affected due to their involvement in flood relief work after last December's deluge, and wanted grace marks to be granted.   During a press meet at the Chennai press club, DASE general secretary G Ravindranath said none of the students had failed in individual subjects. They had achieved the minimum pass mark but their total marks fell below the required aggregate. As per MCI norms, a candidate should obtain a minimum 40% in each theory paper and not less than 50% cumulatively in all four papers for PG degree examination and three papers for diploma examination.   Students also expressed concerns that all evaluators have not been informed of the rules and regulations regarding evaluation.   "The teachers have awarded the marks for individual papers without thinking of the overall aggregate. There are students who have got one mark less than the required aggregate of 200 due to which they have to re-attempt both their theory and practical exams," complained students.   A final year student of Madras Medical College said students were usually called for 24-hour duties every week and are not able to devote time completely to studies until six months before the exam. "We have no issues putting in hours for medical duty. But,Of the six months time, three months were taken up by flood relief work and this impacted our studies. Unlike dental students whose exams were postponed, our exams weren't, even though we requested for its postponement," said Sugandh, president of the association, adding that grace marks could be considered given the circumstances. These 100 odd students incidentally belong to the 2013 batch when NEET was first introduced due to which their course was delayed.According to the Tamil NaduDr MGR Medical University, 1397 PG degree/diploma candidates appeared for the exam conducted in April 2016 and 1286 passed. the results were published on June 3. Of the 941 candidates who appeared for the PG degree exams, 879 passed. Similarly, of the 456 PG diploma candidates, 407 students passed.The University pointed out that the same pass percentage range of 90-95% has been consistently maintained for the past three years.   Meanwhile, a statement issued by the registrar of Dr MGR University, Dr S Pushkala, says that apart from following MCI norms in evaluation, a second valuation was carried out for the failed theory papers for the benefit of students. "The representation of the failed candidates can be taken for consideration and will be placed in the Governing Council (GC) of this University. The decision of the council will later be sent to the MCI for further action. The University will always stand for the students' welfare and career," the statement said. University sources noted that the decision can only be taken by the council at this point.   DASE members said they are planning to stage a demonstration on June 13 along with the failed candidates if the university doesn't comply with their demand.
Bengaluru: When the second pre-university results came out recently, SM Riyaz, a high-scoring student, found himself gawking in shock at his marks for Kannada. Apparently, he had scored 16 out of 100.This PU student from Davanagere was nothing less than brilliant in the subject, so he knew there was something wrong. Sure enough, a request for a photocopy of his answer script confirmed that he had scored not 16, but 90. It was a clear error on the part of the evaluator, who scribbled the wrong number on the result sheet.But Riyaz was not the only student to get the shock. M Basalinga Patil faced a similar situation. This II PU student too couldn't believe that he had scored just 43 in economics. The photocopies revealed he had actually scored 93.This was another classic case of not recording the results properly on the OMR sheet.The PU department argued that these were one-off cases and the students could always get their scores corrected through a revaluation.Riyaz, however, may beg to differ. The boy couldn't attend his document verification process for CET as he was declared `failed'.He now needs to wait for the PU department to update the correct score so that he can send the documents to CET, which would announce an intermediate rank.A PU official said: "These are a few cases reported this year. As a policy, we refund the revaluation fee for all students who get an upward revision of four or more marks in science subjects, and six or more marks in non-science subjects. So, students need not worry about the issue." Another PU official claimed the errors crept in as a consequence of the recent strike by PU lecturers. During the strike, the government had roped in a number of "inexperienced" evaluators."We feel about 90 per cent of the errors in evaluation happened by freshers," the official said.Also, an official noted that evaluators who made such mistakes were made to pay a penalty.
AMRITSAR: Finance minister Arun Jaitley will lay foundation stone of IIM , Amritsar on June 19 th. On Thursday Amritsar deputy commissioner Varun Roozom inspected the preparations for the proposed foundation stone lying ceremony and also held meetings with various administrative officials for the purpose.As par earlier schedule chief minister Parkash Singh Badal was to hold meeting but due to fever and poor health he had to leave back to Chandigarh from Gurdaspur even cutting short his Sangat Darshan programmes. Giving details Varun informed that Amritsar Development Authority had transferred 60 acres of land at Manawala on the name of IIM and had given possession to IIM officials.
Amritsar: Incidents of disobedience by Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) employees in the recent past have raised a question mark over the independent functioning of the committee, which is drawing flak for allegedly taking decisions under the influence of Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal). The latest in the series is Gurpreet Singh, a sewadar, who was transferred to Lucknow by SGPC after he gave 'sehra' (flower garland) and patasha parshad on Monday to Baljit Singh Daduwal, chief of Panthic Sewa Lehar, who was appointed 'jathedar' of Takht Damdama Sahib by 'Sarbat Khalsa'. Daduwal had paid obeisance at the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple, which irked SGPC officials and they ordered Gurpreet's transfer to Lucknow. Talking to TOI on Wednesday, Gurpreet said, "I didn't make any mistake. We offer 'sehra' and 'patasha parshad' in routine to many devotees but I don't know why I am being transferred." He said come what may he wouldn't join his new posting.When contacted, SGPC additional secretary D S Bedi and Golden Temple manager Sulakhan Singh refrained from answering why Gurpreet was transferred. Reacting to the SGPC's decision, Daduwal said it was the most unfortunate incident. "This is not disobedience of employees but a beginning of revolt in SGPC by the staff who are being persecuted, forced to obey dictates of a few powerful in SAD(B)," he said.Earlier, Panj Pyaras (five beloved ones) had refused to accept SGPC orders and left the committee. Later, Balbir Singh Farash, ardasiya at Golden temple, had also refused to join his new posting after he was transferred for refusing to give 'siropa' (robe of honour) to chief minister Parkash Singh Badal in Golden Temple on June 3. In the past, a young committee employee had thrown his resignation letter on the face of SGPC president Avtar Singh Makkar, expressing his resentment for suspending Panj Pyaras. Soon after, Makkar had held a meeting with SGPC employees asking them to control their emotions and sentiments and not to make public their display.India head of UK-based NGO, Sikh Relief, R P Singh said, "We are honouring Balbir Singh with 'sriopa' and a financial assistance of Rs 1 lakh on June 10." He said he was still not aware of Gurpreet's case but would like to extend every possible help to him.
AHMEDABAD: More than 140 members of Business Women Wing (BWW) will be voting on Friday to elect new chairperson and co-chairperson. This is the first time that direct elections are being held for the first time for these two posts. As many as five businesswomen are in fray for these two posts.The five candidates are a mix of both young and old businesswomen. Rekhaben Adhwaryu, Saroj U Sharma and Urvi J Chauhan are in the fight for post of chairperson of BWW while Heena B Shah and Shibani S Desai are fighting for post of co-chairperson. There has been a lot of tussle among the contestants to gather support of the members.All eyes will be on Rekhaben Adhwaryu who has been conspicuous by her absence. According to sources, she is in US and may miss the elections on Friday.The voting will be held from 2pm to 4pm and results will be declared by 6pm.In the main categories of GCCI for which the elections are scheduled on June 18, barring one or two categories, elections may not even take place as candidates continue to withdraw from various categories. Out of 11 categories, only three have candidates vying for slotted seats.The main fight is in 'life/patron' (2 seats) category where businessmen Bhavesh S Lakhani and Hiten R Vasant are in fray for along with Sanjeev M Chajjer who is vice-president in a leading travel and tourism firm. The senior members of the chamber are trying to persuade all the three candidates separately so that at least one of them withdraws and there is no need for elections.The other two categories to have elections are business association (local- 2 seats) and business association (outstation- 1 seat). Jyotindra N Patel of Gujarat Energy Auditors Association, Dinesh B Patel of Ahmedbad Nava Madhupura Vepari Mahajan and Ashok P Patel of Kathwada Industries Association will be in fray for two seats in business association (local) category. Bennett University launches world-class B.TECH Program in partnership with Georgia Tech . Visit www.bennettuniversity.com for more details
Agra: A mob led by a village pradhan barged into a police station in Khanduli, attacked the cops on duty and freed their acquaintances, who were taken into custody after they were involved in a brawl.  The incident took place late on Wednesday night. Etmadpur circle officer DSP Abhishek Singh had to rush to the police station along with a PAC team to rescue his colleagues. Three men, who were part of the mob, have been arrested from the ten named in the FIR.  According to police, the families of one Sripal Singh and one Sanjeev (who uses just his first name) were engaged in a scuffle on Wednesday, when the former released the latter's cattle from the shed.  When Sanjeev came to know of this, he barged into Sripal Singh's home along with his relatives and acquaintances. The two groups engaged in fisticuffs, in which Sanjeev's mother Kasturi Devi and sister Nitu were injured. Fearing a larger clash in the village, the local residents informed police who took Sripal, Sanjeev, Hardev, Satyendar and others to the police station.  Around 9pm, a group led by Paitkheda pradhan Satyveer Singh and former Malpura pradhan Surendar Singh barged into police station and attacked sub inspector Balveer Singh and constable Dharmendar in order to free the men in custody.  With the cops overpowered, Sanjeev fled along with his aids.  Police said that the families of Sripal Singh and Sanjeev have encroached on 200 sq metres of land that belongs to a primary school. They have allegedly built their homes and cow sheds on this land.  CO Etmadpur Abhishek Singh filed an FIR against ten men and later arrested three men under sections 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension), 225 (resistance or obstruction to lawful apprehension of another person), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the Indian Penal Code, and 7 (Molesting a person to prejudice of employment or business) of the Criminal Law Amendment Act.  The three arrested men have been identified as Ratiram, Ravi Kumar and Dharmendar.
Chennai: Police have recov-ered one more of the seven HyundaiSUVs which were stolen from a storage yard in the city on Wednesday. The car was found abandoned at Aalapakkamnear Maduravoyalby police around 4am on Thursday. It had been affixed with a duplicate number plate.   Five of the seven cars had been abandoned near Valasaravakkamon Wednesday. The search for the remaining SUV and the seven-member gang which committed the crime is continuing. Police have not got any leads on their identity so far. The members of the gang had been recorded by a CCTVcamera in Valsaravakkamwhere they abandoned five cars. But the images from the security camera were not clear enough to properly identify the people involved, according to officials. Police are going through the video footage taken from the car parking yard in Manapakkamin a bid to identify the criminals.   Police believe the remaining car may have been abandoned somewhere in the city.   An investigating officer said, "The car has only 5 litres of petrol since it is new. The culprits couldn't have refueled it because they are bound to be caught in the cameras placed at every bunk. So they might have abandoned the SUV like how they did the rest."
Agra: Holding the Uttar Pradesh government responsible for the violence unleashed by Swadheen Bharat Subhash Sena (SBSS) members at Jawahar Bagh in Mathura on June 2, Swami Swarupananda Saraswati Maharaj, shankaracharya of the Dwarka Jyotish Peeth, has demanded that the government should now get all land illegally occupied by the Jai Gurudev Ashram vacated.  The seer, who was in Mathura on Thursday, said the complicity of the state government was "evident" as the administration failed to get the SBSS members evicted from the park for more than two years. He alleged that the Jai Gurudev Ashram was still occupying hundreds of acres of land belonging to the state government and farmers and immediate steps should be taken to evict them.  The shankaracharya alleged that after the death of the godman Jai Gurudev in 2012, two ministers of the Samajwadi Party government pressurised the local administration to set up Pankaj Yadav as the "illegal" owner of all his properties. "Besides (minister) Shivpal Singh Yadav, Ramgopal Yadav was also involved in these shady deals," he added.  Taking a dig at Amit Shah's "new-found" love for Dalits, which he exhibited by recently sharing a meal with them, the seer said this was all an "electoral gimmick". He also stated that publicising events like Dalits taking a holy dip in Shipra river in Ujjain was also a "political drama", as there was no discrimination against Dalits in any of the holy places.  "Rather than resorting to gimmicks, if the BJP is really interested in uplifting Dalits, they should work in that direction and make attempts to truly assess their state," the shankaracharya said, adding that there should be no reservation on the basis of caste or economic conditions.
Ahmedabad, Jun 9 ()   Gujarat Chief Minister   Anandiben Patel today broke down when a young girl spelt out agony of unborn girl children to highlight issue of female foeticide at a function in the   Kheda district. Patel had gone to the Harej primary school to enrol students as a part of annual school enrolment drive of the Gujarat government. During the function, a class nine student   Ambika Gohel , spelt out agony of unborn girl children, who are killed in the womb of their mothers, as a part of rampant practice of female foeticide, resulting in skewed sex ratio across many states of the country. Ambika read out a letter from an unborn girl child to her mother requesting to allow her to take birth in the world. The heart touching presentation of the pain of meeting death, without even being allowed to born, moved one and all and even Ambika started crying. The 74-year-old first woman chief minister of Gujarat, who is considered to be a strict task master, could not prevent tears rolling down her eyes. After Ambika, read out the letter, Anandiben hugged the girl as both of them were seen crying. Patel was later seen wiping her tears with a napkin. She later told the villages who had gathered for the function that little village girls have immense talent and they can move the large audience with their elocution power. "Parents should not discriminate between son and daughter and allow daughters to study," she said. According to the Chief Minister, her government has taken elaborate steps to curb female foeticide from the state. Patel enrolled 86 students to the primary school of the village today. PD NRB RCJ
Madurai: Anna University has rejected a representation by Dhaya College of Engineering, owned by former Union minister M K Alagiri, for inclusion of its name on the list of affiliated colleges.The university informed the Madurai bench of the Madras HC about its decision to reject the representation when Justice M Venugopal was hearing a petition filed by college principal G Jeyakarangrubb seeking a direction to the university to include its name. Following this, the college expressed its willingness to withdraw the petition by stating that it would file a case against the rejection order. Accepting this, the judge dismissed the petition as withdrawn.Earlier, the petitioner's side said the college received AICTE approval in 2011-12 academic year. However, The university also allotted a counselling code to the college confirming the provisional affiliation.The college's name was not found on the list of affiliated colleges. Following this, the college on April 20 sent representation to the university. Countering this, The government told the court the university had rejected it for want of stability certificate from PWD.
AHMEDABAD: CII and Young Indians - Ahmedabad chapter has, under its "Entrepreneurship & Innovation" vertical, organised the Session II of the "The Super Startups-Inspiring Startupreneurs". Two social startups named G-Auto and Ability on Wheels showcased their presentations at the CII House. Both these startups are improving our quality of life by providing services that cater to the masses and giving an extra edge to the Startups wave said Mr Dhruv Shah, Chairman, Yi Ahmedabad Chapter.He added, "It's not our disabilities but our abilities that counts but the problem in the society is that people see disability before they see you." The Super Startups" series shall be inviting various successful startups every 15 days at CII House. The selected successful startups can share their ideas, products & stories with the Young Indian Members, looking for new ideas, Angel Investors, Students and Educational Institutes.  "Super Startup" was started by Young Indians(Yi) at Ahmedabad to stimulate an ecosystem in Gujarat. One of the social start-ups, G-Auto Project idea was conceived and mentored by Nirmal Kumar, a management graduate from IIM-A and social entrepreneur by Profession. G-Auto has a network of 21000 auto rickshaw drivers across Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar, Rajkot, Surat and Delhi.Ability on Wheels is the brain child of Harish Jach, who is specially-abled person with a passion for driving. Ability on Wheels provides Mobility Services & Solutions to the specially-abled people of the country by forming an NGO "Ability on Wheels".  As part of the Startupreneurs, the best start-ups will get to pitch their ideas to CII Members & Industry Members. This shall culminate into a larger event where top 5 startups will get a chance to pitch their idea to a Jury consisting of High Level CEOs from CII & Yi.
BHOPAL: Rajya Sabhaelections in Madhya Pradesh scheduledfor June 11 is getting more complicated by the hour. It's a seat to seat fight for both ruling BJP and Congress especially for the third seat which is a contest between Supreme Court advocate Vivek Tankha and sitting state BJP general secretary Vinod Gothia.    On Thursday, the state Congress approached Jabalpur High Court with an appeal to permit voting by postal ballot for leader of Opposition Satyadev Katare who is critically ill and under medical treatment at the Hiranandani Hospital in Mumbai. High Court granted permission and Election Commission (EC) was directed to issue postal ballot for Satyadev Katare whose condition is acute. State EC office said that a copy of the order has been forwarded by Congress' advocates and postal ballot is being sent.    But two hours after High Court order, independent candidate supported by the BJP -- Vinod Gothia - went on appeal challenging the order. His appeal will be heard on Friday by the High Court, state BJP office said. There were also murmurs that the EC could file a writ arguing that postal ballot cannot be issued on grounds of ill health. But speaking to TOI, the EC office in the state denied any such move.  "The EC did not go into appeal in the first place so how can the HC order be challenged. We have received a copy of the court's order and will follow the directives," a senior officer in the EC office explained.    High Court hearing another appeal gave bail to rape accused Congress MLA from Badwani seat Ramesh Patel. The MLA can now come and vote for his party's candidate Vivek Tankha on Saturday.    Congress has 57 MLAs in the assembly and needed just one vote to send Tankha to the Upper House. Falling short of a single seat, former Union minister Kamal Nath approached BSP supremo Mayawati for support. Mayawati last week issued a whip to all four BSP MLAs in Madhya Pradeshto vote for Tankha. However, that support was shaken after a photograph of BSP MLA from Dimni (Morena) Balbir Singh Dandotiya with minister of state for urban administration Lal Singh Arya hit news channels on Thursday morning.    Kamal Nath, who has been put in-charge of the Rajya Sabha polls for Congress, reached the party office in the afternoon and started a one-on-one meeting with every member of the Congress Legislative Party (CLP). Fear is that if BSP MLA can break even with Mayawati's whip, then Congress MLAs are not safe from ruling BJP intrusion. Over the past three years, elections have seen Congressmen break away from their original party and join the BJP - former deputy leader of Opposition of the Congress Rakesh Singh Chaturvedi, MP from Hoshangabad Uday Pratap Singh, former bureaucrat turned politician and now BJP MP from Bhind seat Bhagirath Prasad, MLAs Sanjay Pathak, Narayan Tripathi. At a time when Congress' stalwarts like Gurudas Kamat and Ajit Jogi have abandoned the party, it would not be a surprise if a few MLAs again prove to be turn-coats.
Agartala: A local court in West Tripura's Sonamura on Thursday sent a Nigerian national to jail and his companion, a minor boy also from Nigeria, to the Juvenile Justice Board for illegal entry into India.The duo was detained by Border Security Force (BSF) in Srimantapur in Sonamura subdivision on Wednesday. According to reports, the older man has been identified as Adiah Henry Chinonso, 34, a resident of Lagos in Nigeria.Later, a case was registered against them under the Foreigners Act, 1964, and Section 120 (B) of the IPC. Police found a passport and some cash on them. They were produced before the local court which sent the older man to jail for two days.
Aurangabad: An 18-year-old girl has gone missing from Shivajinagar area in the city since June 4. According to the complaint lodged at the Jawahar Colony police station by Hirabai Subhash Rajput (45), her daughter had left for college at 9.30 am as per routine on June 4. The college is located on the railway station road. After she did not come back home in the evening, the mother grew anxious and started looking for her. She checked with acquaintances and friends to know whether she was with them. She also inquired about her daughter's whereabouts with other distant relatives, but drew a blank. She then approached the Jawahar Colony police who registered a missing person compliant, the police said.
Aurangabad: Agriculture researchers in Malegaon have utilised hydroponics technology to come up with green fodder for livestock in face of the region's drought. The grass, which is grown in greenhouses and grows without soil, has been recommended by experts to supplement the available meagre pasture resources for livestock. "Hydroponics is utilized for sprouting grains or growing plants without soil but only with water or a nutrient-rich solution. But in case of fodder production, there is no need nutrient rich solution. It can be well produced with the use of fresh water only," said Sandip Nerkar, subject matter specialist at Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Malegaon in Nashik district.He said that previously, it was perceived that hydroponics fodder can only be grown in high-tech green houses, but latest researches have devised low-cost structures. "The technology can be adopted by using local material such as bamboo, wood or pipes for constructing greenhouses and controlling temperature and humidit. A farmer can construct a 3x4 meter greenhouse unit which can generate enough feed for two dairy cows or buffaloes. This unit can also support 10 goats or sheep," Nerkar said.Grains used to produce green fodder are wheat, barley, maize or oats. "According to availability and economic feasibility, maize could be the best choice. It has a 85-90% germination rate. The grains are planted on small trays, and watered as per procedure. Within a week, grass that can be used as fodder gets fully developed," Nerkar said.While Marathwada and a few other areas have been facing continuous water scarcity for the past few years, it has been affecting overall crop production along with the fodder production. Experts opined that the next best alternative, that is hydroponics fodder, should be employed on a large scale. "The productive and reproductive efficiency of livestock could adversely get affected due to less availability or unavailability of green fodder. Besides the availability issues of green fodder, more labour requirement for the cultivation and uncertain weather conditions could affect methods of fodder production. Therefore exploring alternative options is imperative,"Nerkar added.As per estimates carried out by Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Malegaon, the green fodder produced using hydroponics could cost as low as Rs 4-Rs 5 per kilogram.
Ahmedabad: The superintendent of central excise, Dhrangadhra range, Surendranagar division, was arrested by the Ahmedabad zonal unit of directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI) late on Wednesday night. The officer, J B Jhala, was arrested for his role in an above-Rs100-crore import duty evasion on mulberry silk, using invoices certified by him, and involving multiple merchant exporters that existed only on paper, said DRI officials. Jhala was produced in a local court and sent to judicial custody. DRI officials said the scam may cross Rs300-crore evasion of duty, adding that this was the third arrest in the case, with two persons, Jitendra Mistry and Kaumil Ranpura, arrested last month. The mastermind of the scam is suspected to be based in Bangalore. The scam involved import of mulberry silk without paying duty, under the pretext of supplying it to the 100% export-oriented unit (EOU), and then selling the silk in domestic market in black. All fake invoices bore signatures of a single officer, said DRI sources."During the course of the enquiry, we recovered documents pertaining to the fraudulently availed DFIA licences. The documents indicated that invoices, under which deemed exports were shown to Shree Keshri Exports, bore signatures of J B Jhala," said a DRI official. The official further said, "This officer had certified receipts of goods in the said non- operational 100% EOU despite fully knowing that it was non-operational from the beginning. The documents signed by Jhala were instrumental in issuance of DFIA licences worth more than Rs100 crore."Jhala was arrested after primary investigations revealed that duty-free import authorization (DFIA) to the tune of Rs100 crore or more had been obtained by dummy merchant exporters, in the name of a 100% export-oriented unit, Shree Kesri Exports, Dhrangadhra, from the office of the Joint Director General Foreign Trade (DGFT) Ahmedabad. Further probe revealed that the said Shree Kesri Exports neither did any manufacturing, nor had any machines installed, or was operative in any sense other than as a front for claiming duty exemption. It had also never exported anything on record.
Hyderabad: Two cars, including a Mercedes Benz belonging to Tollywood director Raghavender Rao, were damaged at his Banjara Hills residence by a story writer. Banjara Hills inspector Srinivas said that one Ravinder, native of Anantapur, has approached the director to sell his story. When rejected, he picked up a rod and damaged the windowpanes of the cars. The accused was arrested.
Hyderabad: Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) officials on Thurday demolished a car service centre and other allied shops on the premises of an old grant bungalow at Mudfort. The service centre owners raised objection and tried to resist the demolition drive, but the official razed the illegal structures. According to the SCB officials, the old grant bungalow (OGB) number 215 is spread over 2.5 acre at Mudfort in Secunderabad cantonment and five shops, including a four-wheeler service centre (Mody Ford), were operating out of the premises for the past two decades. "In 2006, the SCB had served notices on the OGB lease-holders stating that as per the Cantonment Act, using the premises for commercial activity was in violation of rules. However, they approached the court. After nearly a 10-year long legal battle, the court verdict came in SCB's favour," SCB assistant engineer Ramulu told TOI."Based on the court's directions, we razed all five temporary (iron sheds) structures put up on the 2.5 acre OGB land," he said.
HYDERABAD: Every monsoon brings with it tales of inundated roads and open manholes in the city. If these issues were not enough, this time around, city residents have another reason to worry - collapsing statues.Recently , a statue of poetsaint Annamaiah was almost dislodged from its pedestal on Tank Bund Road when heavy gale winds wreaked havoc across the city. Adding to the dismay of people, this was not an isolated incident, with several cases of statues collapsing and tilting being reported from across the city .According to officials from the Met department, during the recent showers, wind speeds to the tune of 70 to 100 km per hour were recorded in the city . "There are high chances that this effect might continue even during the monsoon season," said a senior official of the department.While citizens remain concerned about their safety, of ficials of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), roads and buildings department and the district collectorate, hardly seem per seem perturbed about the issue.According to RTI activists, who RTI activists, who sought information about illegal statues from the GHMC, there are as many as 200 il legal stat ues across the city. After conducting hysical check a physical check recently, they allege that most of these statues are on the verge of collapsing. "They (GHMC) failed to respond as to how many of them (statues) are structurally stable to handle any natural disaster," said Murali Mohan, an RTI activist.Highlighting the dangers of collapsing structures, he added that in case there is heavy rainfall, usually motorists stop and wait under a tree. Especially on the Tank Bund Road, He said, this makes them vulnerable as the area has many statues and structures that are not strong enough. "Going by the response we received from the civic officials, we can say that they do not conduct any structural stability check on these structures," he added.Not just RTI activists, even urban planning experts rue the lack of coordination and planning among civic authorities, and say a lax attitude could have deadly repercussions for motorists and passers-by . "These structures are made of flimsy material and are only held in place with iron-rods on the inside. The GHMC must hope that no accidents take place, or else they will be held responsible," said, J Kumaraswamy, secretary, Greater Hyderabad Residents' Forum.When contacted, officials from the civic body said there were responsible for only 75 statues. However, guidelines have a different tale to tell. According to rules, the GHMC is supposed to accord permission for statues in its standing committee meetings. "During my term as the Mayor we had forwarded only two requests to the then state government. The permissions are since pending," Majid Hussain, former mayor, told TOI.
HYDERABAD: Irked by the way events unfolded after the death of dalit scholar Rohith Vemula, Sreepati Ramudu, head of the centre for study of social exclusion and inclusive policies (CSSIP) at the University of Hyderabad (UoH) stepped down from his post on Thursday.At present, nearly 50 MPhil and PhD scholars are pursuing their research on issues of exclusion, marginalisation, gender discrimination at the centre and authorities said these students could face problems.In his letter, submitted to the registrar, Ramudu raised concerns over the handling of issues related to dalit students."I have been convinced that there have been many omissions and commissions against dalit students in the investigation of events culminating in the punishment of students which I took to his (VC Appa Rao Podile) notice," he said in the letter. A member of the SC ST teachers' forum on campus, Ramudu said post Vemula's suicide, the dalit community, "feels very vulnerable and lack(s) confidence in the impartiality of the administration.""VC only tries to exert his powers on faculty members. It is shameful that a Dalit faculty member had to resign from his post under such circumstances," said Arpita Jaya, a member of JAC for social justice.Earlier on Wednesday, Vipin Srivastava was appointed proVC 1 and BP Sanjay as pro-VC 2. Pro-VCs have to assist the VC in matters specified by by him.
Ahmedabad: Crime branch has asked sub-inspector Chandrakala Jadeja, an accused in the alleged liquor party bribery, to give her voice samples for voice spectrograph test Directorate of Forensic Science Laboratory, Gandhingar, on June 14. Senior crime branch official said PSI Jadeja has been informed of the date and time to remain present at DFS Gandhinagar. "However, it is her prerogative whether to give her voice samples for verification to match with the audio tape in which she is allegedly talking about money after the liquor party raid," added a crime branch official.
HYDERABAD: Environmentalists are all set to drag authorities to the National Green Tribunal for their failure to protect the Musi river.Speaking on the sidelines of a round-table conference, organised by the Save Rivers collective, for a 'Clean Musi River' on Thursday, environmentalist K Purushotham Reddy said the the group would approach the NGT within a fortnight and attach all documentary evidence regarding the river's decay. He added that the collective intended to the make the central and state governments, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, National and State Pollution Control Boards, respondents in the matter.Speaking at the Centre for Economic and Social Studies, he said, "Our contention is that the Musi was a life-saving river, but over a period of time due to industrialisation of Hyderabad, with several industries releasing chemicals, effluents are polluting the river."While approaching the NGT on the matter, the collective is relying on observations made by the apex court regarding environmental degradation in the Dehradun valley. According to Reddy, the court had in that case noted that the right to life includes right to a wholesome environment. "This means that (people) have the right to clean air, water and surroundings. Since those rights are being violated here (along the Musi), we as political science professors and top scientists from the state and central institutions will attach the umpteen studies on the Musi to the NGT petition," he said.Environmentalists also raised serious concerns regarding the Strategic Road Development Plan, a part of which is to be constructed on the Musi riverbed. With the river already suffering from an unpredictable rainfall pattern, the SRDP could be a death blow."Where will the water go?There is a threat of such structures becoming a barrage," an environmentalist said.During conference, environmentalists also hailed the Asaf Jahi Dynasty's concrete rejuvenation and beautification plans for the Musi. They said that these plans must be studied to prevent further harm to the river.While describing the present state of the Musi, environmentalist and Save Rivers convener Indrasena Reddy said that post-Independence, the condition of the Musi deteriorated on account of urbanisa tion and unplanned industrialisation. "The Musi in not just polluted, it is toxic," he said.Previous governments have embarked on "clean up" projects, but the effort has not been exhaustive. "The focus should be on two points clearing encroachments and cleanup of the river," he said.Policy expert D Narasimha Reddy said successive governments have not taken into consideration the `culture' associated with the river. The ORR too has done damage to the Musi, he added.Meanwhile, explaining how Musi's toxicity has affected villages downstream, Edulabad sarpanch Shankar said paddy production had decreased from 40 bags per acre to around 20.He also said that health complications were being noted.
Chennai: Could our polluting, galaxy-pervasive plastic water bottles shortly become as distant as the Antediluvian?It could, if the Union ministry of drinking water and sanitation (formerly under the ministry of rural development as the department of drinking water and sanitation) is persuasive enough about a new initiative to minimise/end the use of bottled water.The ministry has advised organisers not to use bottled water at official functions, seminars and other events because it generates plastic waste. The official signatory of the ministry has cited the Centre's goal under Swacch Bharat Mission to clean India by 2019."I request that the use of bottled drinking water in official meetings, seminars, conferences, workshops etc, including those conducted by subordinate and attached offices/PSUs etc, be avoided by making alternative arrangements for safe drinking water that does not result in generation of plastic waste," additional secretary Saraswati Prasad said in a statement dated April 28.Hallelujah! An arm of the government is actually taking steps to control among the worst pollutants of the environment. Better, even if not intended, it could also strike a blow against the rush of big business to commodify water, the most precious resource of life.While big business commodifies water like the end of the world is upon us (and they may succeed in that too), space agencies worldwide are spending billions of dollars on, and scientists all of their lives, looking for it on planets 1,000 light years away.But back to minister Prasad: His statement said the move was part of the Swacch Bharat Mission that the Centre aims to achieve by 2019 as a tribute to Mahatma Gandhi on his 150th birth anniversary.He added that his ministry had "stopped using bottled water in official functions and some states have also started avoiding" the use of bottled water.For their part, bottling companies, including global beverage giants, say they do not pollute the environment. They insist that they recycle used plastic bottles."We have entered the Guinness World Records by collecting 1.1 million used bottles in Mumbai on a single day," the marketing manager of a leading water packaging company in the country said. "We recycled these bottles to make thinner plastic materials for other uses. We did not use the recycled plastic for making bottles again."The ministry's statement left event managers more than a little taken aback."If we organise meetings or events in hotels we will not have a problem because they have reverse osmosis plants," an event manager said. "But it will be an issue if the events are out of cities. There is rarely any source of clean drinking water in smaller towns."At functions like marriages, bottled water is now a staple. "It is the only source of clean water and guests at weddings demand that we serve them bottled water," a 'marriage organiser' in Chennai said. "I don't know what we'll have to do if the advisory becomes a law."
Bhopal: The dismembered body of 60-year-old wife of a retired BHEL official was found on railway tracks under the Habibganj ROB on Thursday morning. Police said the woman went out for her morning walk as usual. However, when she did not return till late, her husband launched a search and found her dead on railway tracks. A case was later registered in Habibganj police station. Police said the matter is under investigation.The woman, Usha Agrawal, resided in Saket Nagar. Her husband, Purushottam, woke up in the morning. When his wife did not return from morning walk, he enquired from his tenant. The duo then left in search of her on tenant's bike. On finding a number of people assembled near train tracks, the duo went there, but was shocked to find Usha's mutilated body. She was recognised by her face.Police said they could not find a reason for her committing suicide. Her husband also told cops that she cannot commit suicide. The couple's daughter is married while son works in Mumbai. Cops said that she had been not keeping well for some time. Investigating officer, GS Malviyam said "It came to light she had some mental problem, though statement of her family members will make things clear. Besides, it will be verified whether she was undergoing any kind of treatment." Officials said in the investigation done so far it is unclear whether someone else was with her at the time of incident.Type of injuries on the body make it clear that she was hit by a train, but in what circumstances she reached the rail tracks is a matter of investigation, officials said, adding that the spot where her body has been found is over a kilometre away from her house. The body was handed over to the family after autopsy.
Hyderabad, Jun 10 () Telangana government today ordered setting up of a 'Pharma City' on 12,500 acres of land in Rangareddy and Mahbubnagar districts of the state.  Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) shall send detailed project proposal (DPR) to the government on modalities for implementation and execution of project and also carry out all aspects related to the development of this park in a transparent manner duly following all relevant rules, a government order said.  "As Telangana has traditionally been the bulk drugs capital of the country with almost 1/3 of the total production in value terms, state government intends to keep not only the leader status in the sector but also facilitate setting up of the most modern facilities along with all necessary where withal in an integrated manner," it added.  The government has accordingly decided to set up a state-of-the-art pharmaceutical city, a one stop shop for pharmaceuticals manufacturing companies, biotech and life sciences companies along with all related activities, it said.  The proposed park will have components and other related activities with regard to antibiotics, fermentation products, synthetic drugs, large volume chemical synthesis, intermediaries, vitamins, vaccines, drug formulations, nutraceuticals, herbal medicinal products, specialty chemicals, cosmetics among others.  "Efforts will also be made to establish Research & Development incubation centre, central testing facilities facilitating clinical trials, testing and certification, contract research & custom synthesis," it order further said.  The actual location and exact extent of land will be firmed up based on the availability of government land and private land, it added. GDK ARS ABI
Hyderabad: Determined to revive the ailing Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC), chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has asked RTC officials for detailed reports on each bus depot, its functioning, weaknesses and strengths, human resources and financial performance. The reports will be discussed at a meeting to be chaired by the chief minister in the next few days in order to explore ways to ramp up revenues.A release issued by the chief minister's office said Chandrasekhar Rao was planning to call the meeting shortly and has asked transport minister P Mahender Reddy, RTC chairman Somarapu Satyanarayana and managing director G V Ramana Rao to arrange for it. Managers of all bus depots have been asked to be prepared to present their reports.
New Delhi, Jun 10 () Following is the chronology of events in a gangrape case in which a Delhi court today awarded life imprisonment to five persons guilty of ravishing a 52-year-old Danish woman here in January 2014:  Jan 14, 2014: Danish woman loses way, approaches a group of several men asking for directions. They take her to a secluded spot close to the Divisional Railway Officers' Club near New Delhi Railway Station and nine persons gangrape her at knife point.  Jan 15: Victim leaves for Denmark without medical test.  Jan: Nine men including three juveniles arrested. Police book accused persons for various alleged offences including gangrape, kidnapping and robbery or dacoity with an attempt to cause death or grievous hurt.  Doctors in Denmark confirm rape on the woman. Request is sought for the victim to take part in the probe here.  Feb 20: Accused Shyam Lal claims impotence, says has not raped the woman.  Dec 25: Court directs investigating officer (IO) to give report on the procedure to secure victim's presence before it for recording her statement.  Jan 12-13, 2015: Eyewitness Shivji Singh, a gardener with Indian Railways, identifies the six adult accused in court as the ones who gangraped the woman.  Jan 29: Court begins trial, records statements of prosecution witnesses.  Jul 1: Danish woman appears in court as witness, records testimony and identifies some of the accused.  Jul 2: Victim deposes before Juvenile Justice Board carrying out proceedings against three minors but fails to identify them.  Dec 11: Court records statements of accused who claim innocence saying police falsely implicated them.  Feb 26, 2016: Court informed about death of accused Shyam Lal in jail, proceedings against him abated.  May 25: Court concludes hearing final arguments, reserves judgement in the case.  June 6: Court convicts five adult accused for offences of gangrape, dacoity, kidnapping, wrongful confinement, criminal intimidation and common intention of IPC.  June 10: Court awards life term to five convicts. SKV RRT ARC
Rampur: The investigation into the death of Bajrang Dal activist and local BJP leader Anuja Yadav has taken a new twist. While his family continues to allege that he was murdered by Samajwadi party leader Parvat Singh Yadav, police have claimed that Anuj committed suicide. The BJP leader was shot dead at Deenpur village in Shazadnagar locality 10 km from here on June 3. His family members had alleged that local SP leaders were behind the murder due to political rivalry with Anuj. They had clashed with the police at the village. Later, after the intervention of senior officials, an FIR was filed against Parvat Singh. Talking to the media on Thursday, Rampur superintendent of police (SP) Sanjeev Tyagi said that investigations had revealed Anuj had committed suicide and had not been murdered. Police also gave a clean chit to Parvat Singh. "Anuj had a love affair with a woman from Bhojpura, who later left him and married another man after discovering Anuj was already married and had three children," said the SP. During the investigation, Gitesh Kapil, in-charge, crime branch, and investigating officer and Shazadnagar police station SHO Rajnikant Katariya traced the mobile number of the woman and interrogated her. "She told officers that on June 2, Anuj had objected to her speaking with someone else and had started abusing her. The next day she came to know that Anuj had shot himself," said SP Tyagi. "According to the woman, Anuj's brother Dharmender had levelled fake allegations against Parvat Singh for political reasons," said Katariya. The family of the dead BJP leader alleged that police was trying to cover up the murder. "Parvat Singh has the support of local police officers. He shot my brother dead after hatching a conspiracy with police officers," Rakesh, brother of Anuj, alleged, adding that the police should produce the gun and bullets they say Anuj used to shoot himself. "They should produce Anuj's mobile phone in front of us to substantiate their claims," Rakesh added.
Amritsar: An American Congressional body has invited experts from India, US and UK to testify before it about the happenings in India and how minority rights are being allegedly undermined. American Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (AGPC) coordinator Pritpal Singh informed TOI on Wednesday that the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission on Tuesday examined the current state of human rights in India, challenges to fundamental freedoms, and opportunities for advancement at Washington DC. Recognizing India as the world's largest democracy, the commission of the US Congress said a wide variety of serious human rights concerns persisted in the country. Showing concern over the sharp rise in cases of intolerance, the commission said that despite constitutional provisions abolishing the legal existence of "untouchable" or Dalit castes and tribes, the caste system remained deeply ingrained in Indian society, leading to discrimination.According to the US Commission on International Religious Freedom's latest report, "In 2015, religious tolerance deteriorated and religious freedom violations increased in India. Minority communities, especially Christians, Muslims, and Sikhs, experienced numerous incidents of intimidation, harassment, and violence, largely at the hands of Hindu nationalist groups.""The hearing was jointly chaired by Congressmen Joseph R Pitts and James P McGovern, who took the testimony of expert witnesses pointing to the continuous persecution and threat to Christians, Muslims and Sikh communities in India," said Pritpal.Acknowledging the need for strong partnership, Pitts and McGovern opened the hearing on the current state of human rights in India by emphasizing the importance of religious freedom for minorities, informed Singh.Welcoming the public hearing of US Congress supported by Tom Lantos Commission Friends, Harpreet Singh, who is heading the American Sikh Congressional Caucus (ASCC), told TOI on Wednesday that the hearing provided opportunities to the Sikhs to outlines important legal, social and cultural issues related to the persecution of minorities in India.
Bhopal: An armyman has been booked for trying to commit suicide at 3EME centre here. He shot self with his service weapon. Initially, the incident was believed to be an accident, but later it became clear that he shot self after which police registered a case against him. Incident had taken place on May 10 while a case was registered against the armyman on Wednesday. He is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Pune. Before being shifted from the city, he also told cops at the army hospital that there was a land dispute in his family at his native place in Tamil Nadu due to which he remained disturbed and decided to shoot self. A case under section 309 of the IPC (attempt to suicide) has been registered at Shahjehnabad police station. It is a bailable offence.The bullet was fired from his INSAS rifle. Accused, Kalimuthu, was posted as signalman here for past one and a half year. His family resides in Tamil Nadu. Bullet was fired in guard duty room (barrack) located at the check post. There were four guards at the time of the incident. One of the guards was on duty while two were outside. Kalimuthu was alone in the barrack.
CHENNAI: The mystery behind the Rs 570 crore found in 195 boxes inside three truck-mounted containers on May 13 in Tirupur district by officers on poll duty has deepened further. It now turns out that the trucks had fake registration numbers and the cash transportation documents of RBI too were fake. Besides, the currency bundles had Axis Bank seal and tag though the money apparently belonged to SBI.The Madras high court has now directed the CBI to go into the issue and file a status report in the court in two weeks. Justice R Subbiah, hearing a writ petition of DMK MP T K S Elangovan, gave the interim direction to the central agency on Thursday .Earlier, former additional solicitor general of India P Wilson, representing Elangovan, said the vehicle documents and bank communications were all bogus. The three trucks had registration numbers of Andhra Pradesh. The number of one of them, AP-13 X 5204, is that of an Innova owned by a man named Jaffer Ahmed Khan. The registration number AP-13 X 8650 belongs to Kaja Mohammed and the AP-13 X 5203 belongs to Salim Mohammed. But, interestingly , the RC book for both the vehicles had the photograph of one person. It means the owner of one lorry is not a genuine person, or both vehicles stand in the name of fake people," the affidavit of Elangovan read.The transaction involving three containers without any proper documentation and through vehicles having bogus registration numbers and fake owners, besides false letters given by the SBI claiming that it had obtained permission from RBI Chennai when such a clearance was not given, clearly shows the money is tainted and used for hawala transactions, it said. "High level bank officials have conspired together and created forged documents with fake authorisation from RBI Chennai in order to transport a huge sum of hawala money," it said. As for the claim that the cash belonged to SBI and inter-departmental communications with regard to the sum was produced before authorities, Wilson said a letter dated May 6 did not have file or reference number. Another letter dated May 10 written by branch manager of SBI's specialised currency administration branch in Visakhapatnam made reference to a direction from RBI, Chennai."However, RBI Chennai has not given any such direction or permission for such cash remittances of `570 crore," the petition said, adding that the letters came into existence subsequent to the seizure of the trucks.
Aurangabad: Activists of the Aam Admi Party (AAP) have urged the civic chief to set up vendor markets in the cityin view of the demand for services of street vendors. In a representation to the municipal commissioner on Tuesday, the activists also urged implementation of the Street Vendors Bill, 2014 that envisages vending zones and providing access to all kinds of facilities to hawkers.The activists demanded that the AMC should provide at least one hawkers zone in each ward, which would solve the problem of around 10,000 hawkers in the city.Activist Laxman Patil Pradhan said, "The town vending committees will be responsible for conducting survey of vendors under its jurisdiction every five years. No street vendor will be evicted until such survey has been conducted and a certificate of vending has been issued. All street vendors above 14 years of age should be granted a certification of vending." tnn
Gorakhpur: International vice-president of World Hindu Federation, Samhitashastri Arjun Prasad Bastola from Nepal met BJP leader and chairman of World Hindu Federation (India chapter), Yogi Adityanath here on Thursday. The India chapter has given consent to co-organize Virat Hindu Sammelan at Kathmandu from October 20 to 22. Representatives from 100 nations are expected to participate. The objective of the sammelan is to make Nepal Hindu Rashtra again and to get the mandate of representatives from 100 nations on Ram Temple issue. "We'll make our stand clear on the issue according to the mandate. However, we are positive that under 'Modi raj' the issue will be resolved," Bastola said.The federation has got the support of the present government in Nepal. It seems that the government is inclined towards making Nepal as Hindu Rashtra again, Bastola said. "The Nepalese government has given Rs 20 lakh aid to the federation for sammelan in Kathmandu," he said. "I'm happy that Modiji has brought ancient statues from America to India. I'm sure that Ram Temple issue will be resolved soon. VHP has clear views on the Ram temple issue," he said.
How easy is it for a bunch of youngsters to escape after committing a daylight murder in Chennai? Quite easy , say seasoned investigating officers as well as top IPS officers, who have served long stints in the city and are closely observing its crime trends.Most of the youngsters who have wreaked havoc in the city in recent times hail from agrarian backgrounds in Tuticorin, Tirunelveli, Trichy , Madurai and Ramanathapuram.They look for easy money in cities."Aggression is there in their DNA as they have grown up seeing violence. Gangsters in the city welcome them into their fold as it is easy to channelise their aggression for committing crimes," said a deputy superintendent of police, who hails from a southern district. When not on hire, these youngsters could pass off as unassuming boys playing cricket, said an inspector.Planning and co-ordination of these murders are in sync with modernity , using Google Maps on smartphones. However, the weapon used is still the humble sickle as guns are extremely costly .The brazenness of recent murders in Chennai has shocked residents, indicating that the fear of police has evaporated. "Middlemen, who take around `2 lakh for a murder, are seasoned criminals who are emboldened by the low conviction rate. They infuse confidence in the hirelings," he said.But that doesn't mean the city now has organised crime gangs like the ones that were headed by Vyasarpadi's Subbaiah, Benjamin, Chera, Vellai Ravi and Marina's Ayothyakuppam Veeramani. "Most of the big gangsters were eliminated by city police. Those involved in present crimes are smalltime criminals who don't mind killing someone if the money is good," the official said.One of the reasons for low conviction rate is that inspec tors, sub-inspec tors and constabu lary are overbur dened with other work and are una ble to professionally investigate cases, said a retired IPS officer. "In many cases, the main accused and co-conspirators are not identified. It could be due to corruption, inefficiency and interference of senior officers," he said. Added to that, senior officers are not willing to stand by their subordinates who take bold action. " An inspector can register an FIR in the city only if the assistant commissioner gives the nod," he said.With the city expanding, it's tough for the under-staffed police stations to check crimes."Police officers need to be efficient. Just giving headlineworthy quotes to media won't do. They need to instil fear in criminals and command respect from common citizens," another retired IPS officer said.
Bengaluru: In her list of prospective grooms, matchmaker Shanti Kotreshhas an 80-year-old, a 70-year-old and three men in their 60s---all who do not wish to spend their autumn years in solitude. There's a remarkable rise in number of elderly persons looking for a second innings in life, matchmakers say.   In the last decade alone, Shanti has managed to get over 300 senior citizens tie the knot. Not as romantic as it may sound. It's a tough task, says Shanti. "While the idea of marriage is often associated with love, many of the new proposals are marriages of convenience. However, there are some cases where the elderly have found love in the old age," she adds.   According to the department of stamps and registration, though specific numbers are not available, sub-registrar offices across the city are witnessing occasional marriages of elderly citizens.   Need more places to socialize   It's not only a match senior citizens are looking for, but places to socialize too. In a city that's known as Pensioner's Paradise, and offers great entertainment for its youngsters, elders have limited options. Senior citizens make for close to 10% of the city's population.   Radha S Murthy, president of Nightingale Medical Foundation, says their daycare centre is getting good response from senior citizens who want to spend time with like-minded people. "There's a need more such places. What the senior citizens today have are just public parks," she points out.   Sangita Bhattacharya, who founded the 50+ Voyagers Travel and Adventure Club Pvt. Ltd, two years ago managed to debunk the perception that a business model providing entertainment or socializing opportunities for elders won't be a success. Her travel agency is exclusively for those aged 50 and above. She managed to take over 400 senior citizens on several trips, including for rafting and horse riding among other things. "The response has been very encouraging," Sangita says.   They run because they love to   Marathoner Rahul S Verghese, 55, has taken part in over 49 marathons across the world, including the Mumbai Marathon, the ChicagoMarathon, the 89-km Comrades Marathon in South Africaand the Everest Marathon. Verghese, who started running only after he turned 40, believes that the elderly take to running because of passion.   CEO and founder of Running and Living Infotainment, a company that trains people around the country on every aspect of running, Verghese says a lot many people aged 50 and above are taking to running these days.   "The 30 to 40, 40 to 50 and the 50-plus are the most engaged group of runners we train. Most elders come because of their interest than peer pressure. Unlike those in the 20s who join because they think it's cool, seniors take to running because it allows them to lead a balanced life. They can stay fit and yet indulge guiltlessly in things they love," he said.   The oldest marathoner whom Verghese has met is British-Sikh centenarian Fauja Singhwho ran his first marathon after he turned 100. For seniors who intend to start running in their twilight years, Verghese's advice is simple. "Start gradually, stick to a schedule, remember that there will be good days and not-so-good days; so take it easy and listen to your body."
HYDERABAD: One person died and two others were injured after they jumped off the third floor of an under-construction building, fearing attack by the builder's dog. Seven of the total 10 labourers at work rescued themselves by locking from inside the room. The tragedy took place at Akkayyapalem area in Visakhapatnam city on Thursday morning.      According to Akkayyapalem sub-inspector BBS Ganesh, a local resident Sarva Rambabu took up reconstruction of house on his land. He hired about 40 labourers for the work.      On Thursday morning, when the workers were engaged in the work on the third floor, Rambabu suddenly set his dog free. The dog ran towards them barking, scaring them all. Even as the master was trying to control it, it rushed towards the workers. Seven labourers managed to enter a room and escape.Three others, who found no other option, jumped off the building.      T Ravi, a 21-year-old labourer, died on the spot while the other two were critically injured. They have been rushed to a local corporate hospital for treatment. The police officer said a case of causing death by negligence has been booked against Rambabu.
For Vikram (name changed), a resident of Baker Street in Vepery, murder was something that he had read about in newspapers or watched in films, until Tuesday afternoon, when he witnessed the killing of RTI activist J Parasmal. The image of the businessman bleeding to death has left him shaken and his once familiar residential neighbourhood has lost its sense of calm.Chennaiites who felt their city was comparatively safer than other metros no longer feel so. The perception has changed after a recent string of murders by hired killers, in broad daylight in residential areas like Kodambakkam and Vepery . Murder behind closed doors may be intriguing but when it is committed in the open it becomes a public spectacle and has a greater impact as it instils fear in people and shows the utter disregard for law and order.Police records show that fewer goons are being detained under the stringent Goondas Act, which has always been considered a deterrent for criminals. "Generally , offenders with several criminal cases should be detained under Goondas Act, because we know that once they are out they are likely to commit offences again. After they get released, they should be monitored," former DGP Walter Issac De varam told TOI.Data from National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) shows the first half of 2014 witnessed a surge in murders particularly in the northern parts of the city . However, after media reports, a handful of transfer orders were issued to strengthen the police force in these areas. Tough measures were put in place, gangsters were detained under the Goondas Act and visible policing ensured that by the end of 2014, the city was in safe hands. The murders in the infamous Pulianthope district, which included areas like Vyasarpadi, MKB Nagar, Basin Bridge and Sembium, came down from 27 in 2013 to nine in 2014 and 2015.The situation has changed from then. More than statistics on murder, the growing perception that criminals have no fear of police and public has put law and order in the city under the scanner. In the past few months, lack of visible policing and efficient crackdown has emboldened small time gangsters who are now taking up contracts to kill for a price. In the murder of Kodambakkam lawyer C Murugan, the key accused Shanmuganathan hired killers from Vyasarpadi, who hacked the lawyer to death in front of an apartment during the day . Neither the presence of CCTV nor the residents deterred them from committing the crime.Similarly in RTI activist Parasmal's case, the gang murdered him with sickles in a dense residential area. In the case of Sowcarpet travel agent Babu Singh, the killer shot him on the busy Erulappan Street on May 2. In another attack on May 21 in Vyasarpadi, a gang of four men on bikes attacked at least seven residents outside their house. They told police there was no particular motive for the attack."Criminals who were fearful about the stringent laws and police now have a free run. Some of them have violated the law just for the sake of it," said advocate R Chander, who feels the increase in violent crimes is due to lax policing.
CHENNAI: Catherine Simon, who taught Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa at Presentation Convent, Church Park, in Chennai died of cardiac arrest on Wednesday afternoon. Catherine was 89 and is survived by her son Robert Simon and daughter Angeline James. Simon had been staying with her daughter at Ram Nagar in Velachery. In her condolence messae on Thursday, Jayalalit ge on Thursday, Jayalalithaa said she was shocked and grieved to learn about the passing away of her teacher. "She had dedicated her life to the noble profession of teaching. I had the good fortune of being her student from 1958 to 1964," the chief minister said. Jayalalithaa went on to say that Catherine was a great influence on her life and that they both had shared a very special relationship as teacher and student."She was an inspiration to generations of girl students who came into contact with her," the chief mini ster said. Catherine's qualities of compassion coupled with firmness honed the characters of hundreds of young people to grow up as responsible citizens of the country, she added.School education minister P Benjamin placed a wreath on behalf of the chief minister at her Velachery residence.
Pilibhit: In order to keep Pilibhit TigerReserve (PTR) pollution-free, authorities are planning to replace motorized vehicles with attractively-designed horse-driven carriages in the core Chuka region of the Reserve. Suggestions are being invited from environmentalists, social clubs and business community in this regard.  PTR DFO Kailash Prakash told TOI, "Promotion of eco-tourism is an integral part of activities at the reserve. We are thing of evolving and implementing certain radical plans to keep Chuka pollution-free. Eco-friendly means of transport like animal-driven carriageand battery-operated autorickshaws may prove as best substitutes to motorized vehicles," Prakash said.  "Like eco-friendly transport would be made available to tourists at the gateways to Chuka, where tourists will leave their motorized vehicles. This carriage will be given interesting design to let tourists have maximum fun. The special design will also ensure all safety parameters in view of any apprehended wildlife attacks."  In PTR, Chuka is situated at the far bank of Sharda Sagar dam, amid dense forests of Mahof range. It's opened every year for tourists from November 15 to June 15 , before the arrival of monsoon. According to official records, till June 5 this year, 15,276 tourists visited Chuka using 21 buses, 1,309 cars and 1,719 motorcycles.  According to vice president, Wildlife Biodiversity Conservation Society, Amitabh Agnihotri, these figures don't not include frequent visits by ministers and VIPs, who are usually accompanied by long convoys of cars and never seek prior official permit from reserve authorities for their visits or stays.  Environmentalists have been protesting against the increasing pollution caused by motorized vehicles in the area. Recently, they demanded complete prohibition on such vehicles in Chuka area and threatened moving high court if the desired action was not enforced.  Prakash said, "During the current tourist season, PTR got revenue of Rs 27.48 lakh from tourism at Chuka. This is more by Rs 10 lakh over the quantum earned during the previous season. This revenue is enough to make budgetary provisions for eco-friendly transport," he said.
Aurangabad: Concerns over Jalna's declining sex ratio has prompted the district civil surgeon to urge the Food and Drug Administration to keep a check on sale of abortion pills. Jalna's score for 2015-16 was 887 girls for 1,000 boys, one of the worst in the country.Meanwhile, acting on a tip off on Wednesday, the Jalna district collector sealed two sonography centres and a medical store and registered a case against seven people for violating various provisions of the Pre-Contraceptive and Pre-Natal Diagnostics Tests (PCPNDT) Act. Jalna district civil surgeon Sarita Patil, while speaking to TOI on Thursday, said, "There is a huge racket of illegal abortion which needs thorough investigation by all the enforcing authorities of PCPNDT Act. On Wednesday, after receiving confidential information about an illegal abortion being carried out at a residence located in Jamuna Nagar, near railway station in Jalna city, the civil hospital authorities along with police raided the place.""It was found that a midwife was hired from a local hospital in Mantha Square to carry out an illegal abortion of a 16-week pregnant woman. The woman already had three daughters and wanted a male child," said Patil.The woman had reportedly undergone a sex determination test at a sonography centre in Buldhana, a neighbouring district of Jalna and the reports revealed that the foetus was female and hence they had decided to undergo abortion, explained Patil."During the raid, it was found that the midwife had administered an abortion pill to the pregnant woman. As per the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act framed in 1971, the abortion pills can be prescribed by either gynaecologists or by a registered medical practitioner who has undergone MTP training," she said. She also said that according to the MTP Act, the grounds on which an abortion can be termed legal in India are if there is danger to the life of mother or baby, danger to mental or physical health of the woman, malformation of foetus, pregnancy caused by rape or contraceptive failure. Indian abortion law also sees social or economical incapability of a woman in proper nurturing of her child as valid reason for legal abortion."However, in this case the midwife was found guilty and after investigation, it was suspected that she must have procured the drug from the hospital medical store. Hence for further investigation, our team also sealed the medical store and took all records under the possession for further investigation. Meanwhile, the two sonography centres, including one in Buldhana district, were sealed," she said.A case has also been registered with the Kadim Police Station, in Jalna against seven people including the patient and her two relatives, mid-wife and her assistant, the sonography centre doctor, and the agent involved in mediating the abortion, she said. Meanwhile, the cops at Kadim Police station confirmed that a case has been registered against these people and further investigations are in progress.Patil said, "Merely showing interest in terminating an unwanted pregnancy is illegitimate. But, regardless of legal status, it is being talked about that many speciality hospitals in Jalna were indulging in illegal abortions, endangering the patients' lives."The woman who was administered the abortion pill was admitted to Jalna Civil Hospital and after treatment her condition is stable, said Patil. Expressing concern, she also said that Jalna district appears in the list of 100 worst districts to have poor sex ratio, prompting the Central government to issue specific directions to improve the female sex ratio. It has been rated as one of the 10 worst districts in Maharashtra as child sex ratio (0-6 years) in the district reported for 2014-15 was 887 girl children per 1,000 boys."It is a joint effort to improve the present condition and hence as an authority, I have urged the FDA authorities to keep vigilance on illegal sale of abortion pills at medical stores," she said.The FDA assistant commissioner, Jalna (drug), D K Jagtap said that the FDA authorities have been keeping watch on both the sale and purchase of the abortion drug. "Jalna district has as many as 925 wholesale as well as retail medical store operators and they have been warned of action if they are found to be selling abortion pills without proper prescription," he added.
Agra: A six-member BJP committee, formed to inquire into the Jawahar Bagh violence of June 2, has accused UP minister and Samajwadi Party supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav's brother, Shivpal Singh Yadav, of "conspiring" with Swadheen Bharat Subhash Sena (SBSS) leader Ram Vriksha Yadav to "encroach" on the 260-acre park and pressure the government to lease it out to the cult for 99 years.  The report, which is likely to be submitted to Union home minister Rajnath Singh, recommends a CBI inquiry into the violence and the circumstances that enabled Ram Vriksha and his followers to occupy the park for over two years, without the administration making any serious attempts to get it vacated. The report claims that the administration, under pressure from Shivpal Yadav, had "done nothing" to prevent the encroachment and was even contemplating on leasing out the land to the cult for 99 years.  Talking to TOI, BJP's Meerut MP, Rajendra Agrawal, who headed the committee, said, "The administration's collusion is evident, as the encroachment happened right under their noses and they did nothing, despite complaints being made to them." He pointed out that the park was adjacent to the collectorate, Police Lines and residences of judicial officers, "and yet the encroachment happened".  While Shivpal Yadav was not available for comment, Samajwadi Party spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said that the BJP's report "is a political conspiracy to defame the UP minister (Shivpal Yadav). He said Shivpal Yadav has no connection whatsoever with Ram Vriksha Yadav and that the BJP is just trying to gain political mileage by making these baseless allegations. He dubbed the BJP report a "farce".  The report, meanwhile, also states that the administration "deliberately" did not take any action against Ram Vriksha, despite the fact that he had 70 cases registered against him and intelligence reports clearly indicated that he was storing arms and ammunition inside Jawahar Bagh. Castigating the state government for not allowing the committee to enter Jawahar Bagh, Agarwal said, "They obviously had something to hide."  Another member of the committee, BL Verma, who is BJP's Braj region president, claimed that they had learnt that Ram Vriksha had last year prepared a proposal for getting a 99-year lease for Jawahar Bagh and had been using his connections with Shivpal Yadav to get it accepted by the government. "Despite the fact that two police officers were killed (the death toll in the violence was 29), with one of them being lynched by the SBSS mob, the police did not retaliate initially, as they were under orders from the government," Verma alleged.  The committee members were unanimous that only an inquiry by the CBI would reveal the truth. The other members of the committee were Hathras MP Rajesh Diwakar, Etah MP Rajveer Singh (Rajju Bhaiyya), Firozabad MLA Manish Asija and Bareilly MLA, who's also the party's UP general secretary, Dharampal Singh.
Agra: The central government plans to connect Agra and Delhi by seaplanes in the not too distant future, Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari said on Thursday, an ambitious plan that underlines New Delhi's intention to augment transportation infrastructure in the country.Speaking about the project that will "rewrite the country's maritime history", Gadkari said, "The 'fly boat' project will start in the next three months. We have also been in discussions with the Airport Authority of India (AAI) in order to frame rules and regulations needed to introduce seaplanes on this route."A seaplane is an aircraft that has skis instead of wheels, and can take off from and land on water.The project announcement comes in the wake of the Parliament passing the Indian Waterways Bill on March 11. The bill intends to revolutionize transportation in the country, aiming to add 106 inland waterways to the existing five in the country.In addition, the Centre also plans to operate hovercraft and seabuses in not just Yamuna but across all waterways in the country, the Union minister told Uttar Pradesh-based reporters through a video conference on Thursday."A detailed project report (DPR) for Yamuna is in place. In the initial phase, dredging will be done from Palla village to Wazirabad in Delhi," the minister further said. "To make this project successful, there is a need to build barrages at two places, along with water gates, to ensure a three-metre water draft in Yamuna round-theyear. Only then can such aircraft navigate."Gadkari informed that there are three stakeholders in the fly boat project — Delhi Development Authority (DDA), Delhi Jal Board and his ministry — and a high-level meeting would be convened next month to discuss modalities of the project.Jal Board has been tasked with preventing effluents flowing into Yamuna; DDA will beautify the riverbanks; and the ministry of road transport and highways will oversee dredging works in order to maintain required water levels.There is also a proposal to allow Delhi and Uttar Pradesh governments to utilize the dredged sand for construction of roads, a move that will reduce the cost of dredging that will clear up the riverbed of mud, weed and rubbish.Gadkari also added that Canadian and Russian companies had evinced interest in supplying seaplanes to the country. Meanwhile, a seabus, manufactured in the US, which can also ply on roads, will roll out in Mumbai soon.
BENGALURU: Admissions to pre-university and degree courses are coming to an end and most parents are making arrangements to pay fees for the classes their children have signed up for."Fees keep going up every year," said Shakunthala R, whose son is joining St Joseph's College this year."What matters to parents is that the college has a good reputation and academic programme. College paves the way for the child's future."Most colleges in Bengaluru have different fees for students from within and outside Karnataka and for those from abroad.At St Joseph's College, for instance, the regular fees for an arts course is in the range of `20,000, while NRI students pay an additional `50,000 and foreign nationals pay Rs 80,000 more.Asha Unnikrishnan, who is completing the admission process at Christ Junior College for a science course, said: "The fees may be high but I wanted to join the college for the quality of education. When you consider that and the reputation of the college, the fee is not much of a concern."At Christ Junior College, the fees for PCME (physics, chemistry , math, electronics) is `38,000, and for PCMB (physics, chemistry, math, biology), `35,000, said officials in the PU college. For commerce, fees are `38,000, and for arts it ranges from `19,500 to `26,000, officials said. "Students from outside Karnataka are required to pay `40,000 in addition to the regular fees set by the management of the institution," said an official in the admissions section of the college.At Jyothi Nivas College, non-Karnataka students have to pay Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,000 in addition to the regular course fee."The fees change every year as per the guidelines of the PU Board. This year, for science, the fees is Rs 37,070, for commerce it is Rs 28,890, and for arts it is Rs 25,890," said an administrative official.At Mount Carmel College, students from outside Karnataka have to pay Rs 1,600 as "eligibility fees" and Rs 2,500 as "non-Karnataka special fees" in addition to the regular course fee.Fees for NRI students are higher. Divya B, who completed her BA from Christ University last year, under the NRI quota said fees have gone up for her sister, who is applying under the same quota. "When I joined an undergraduate course in 2012 in the NRI quota, my parents paid `86,000 a year.Now for my sister, they will be paying Rs 95,000 a year," said Divya. "But the education provided is good and justifies the fees." As per the details on the university's website, fees for students joining the BCom Professional course from Karnataka is Rs 1.6lakh a year and for those from other states, it is `1.85lakh.For NRI students, the fees is Rs 2.2 lakh, and for foreign nationals, the fees is more than Rs 4 lakh ($6,200).
Hyderabad: Two months after the botched up 'height surgery' performed on software engineer Nikhil Reddy that left him bed-ridden for several days now, BJP MLAs Kishan Reddy and Chintala Ramchandra Reddy along with Nikhil's father submitted a memorandum to state chief secretary Rajiv Sharma to take action against the hospital authorities. "My son has been bed-ridden for the last two months but no action has been taken against the doctor or the hospital authorities. The chief secretary on receiving the memorandum promised that he will talk to the DGP to initiate immediate action," said Nikhil's father Govardhan Reddy.
Hyderabad: Stating that the Telangana government should have used the summer months to dig rainwater harvesting pits extensively in every household in the state, the Hyderabad High Court on Thursday turned critical towards the state administration for wasting time. "Monsoon is arriving and you are still talking about the constitution of a committee to suggest ways to set up water pits," the bench of Acting Chief Justice Dilip B Bhosale and Justice P Naveen Rao said. The bench was hearing a public interest petition filed by S Vaidehi Reddy of Hyderabad, who was urging the court to direct the state to implement rainwater harvesting pits according to the GO issued in June 2009 itself. This GO was made part of the AP building rules, 2012. It was made mandatory for every new construction site to have such a pit in order to get statutory permissions for construction, electricity and water connections etc. Water connections of buildings that fail to equip themselves with such pits were to be disconnected.In April this year, when there was a proposal to constitute a committee of experts to guide the authorities and people in this regard, the bench directed the state to constitute it within two weeks. But even after a month, the state and GHMC are still seeking time. We have to consult administrative staff college, JNTU etc, the GHMC counsel said. The bench posted the case to next week.
Ahmedabad: A doctor couple refused to settle their matrimonial dispute, even after Gujarat high court requested them to sort out their differences for the sake of their daughter, who was found suffering from thalassemia major. In this case the father, a professor at Civil Hospital in Rajkot, moved the high court after a family court in Rajkot ordered him to pay Rs14,000 a month as maintenance to the daughter. This order was passed in December last year, when the child was nine months old. The order was passed after his wife sought maintenance on the ground that she was forced to move out when she was pregnant. The man questioned the maintenance order, but in the meantime, it was found that the child was a thalassemia major patient. The report came after the family court ordered for maintenance, when the quarrelling couple had no clue about the child's illness, and hence the HC was moved.The HC sent the matter for mediation, but they did not agree on a settlement. When the child's illness was divulged, the HC refused to interfere with the maintenance order, and neither did the father dispute the maintenance amount further.However, the HC repeatedly requested the couple to reach a compromise so that the parents could bear together the expenditure of costly bone marrow transplantation surgery. However HC's request failed to make the couple settle their differences.
Ahmedabad: An emotional speech on female foeticide by Ambika Gohel, a class IX student of Heranj village, situated in Mahudha taluka of Kheda district, left the audience and chief minister in tears. In her speech the girl narrated an imaginary letter by a victim of female foeticide addressed to her mother, where the dead unborn child asks why her mother killed her even before her birth. Gohel described how the unborn baby had wanted to see the world and breathe fresh air, but was never given a chance. Gohel said, "You killed me, only because you came to know that I am a girl. Mother, remember a house is not a house without a daughter."While she was delivering her speech, the girls in audience broke down, and soon after her speech ended, the CM called Gohel on the stage and hugged her. Gohel told the visibly emotional CM that she wanted to be a doctor. Meanwhile, on the second day of the state-wide 'Kanya Kelavani' and school enrollment drive, Patel enrolled 86 students in the primary school in Heranj village situated in Mahudha taluka of Kheda district. Along with enrolling 42 toddlers in anganwadi, she also ensured enrollment of 96 students in class IX.Patel said the quality of primary education has improved due to Gunotsav programmes. Today, more than 1,000 primary schools of the state have secured A-plus grade, she said. The CM asked teachers to make students aware about current social problems. She also said that the government, in collaboration with the society, will ensure improvement of quality of education in all schools across the state.The CM also distributed supplementary food kits to pregnant mothers and adolescent girls. She gave bicycles to girls under Saraswati Sadhana Yojana, and distributed text books to promising students of class II to class VIII. She also distributed uniform assistance cheques to students from class I to class VIII.
BHOPAL: While the state government fails to mitigate problems of villagers in parched Karhal block of Sheopur district where day temperatures hover around 47 degrees and water table has sunk to 350 feet, a foreign organisation is quenching thirst and feeding hungry tribals. Drought has also triggered an exodus of more than 5,000 villagers from Sheopur.Two days ago, when the district collector visited Karhal and found villagers constructing an earthen dam, he wanted to know what was happening. Speaking to TOI, Mani Ram, a tribal, said, "We told the government official that 'the government was not providing jobs, so we are helping ourselves."Welt Hunger Hilfe (WHH), a German NGO, is distributing 10 kg of wheat flour and 1 kg of moong dal to a person from every family residing deep inside the tribal district of Sheopur that borders Rajasthan. It is also providing grains in lieu of wages to tribals working at construction site of three earthen dams. Then, there are tankers that supply water to the residents.WHH programme manager Vijay Rai said, "We have been working globally. We went to earthquake-hit Nepal and drought-plagued Ethiopia, among others. We thought situation in Karhal is serious and requires urgent intervention. With the help of Gandhi Seva Ashram and Ekta Parishad, we are trying to reduce woes of tribals.""After identifying the issues, we came up with three-four solutions, including food support for those who don't have any support system from family or society." Incidentally, only elders and cattle are left at many places in Karhal following the massive migration. Besides, many tribals have returned but there is no work in Karhal.Ekta Parishad president Ran Singh Parmar said, "Construction of earthen dams started at Sadvi Adhbada and Kapooria villages is providing job to tribals." He added, "Ground water of large number of villages will be recharged."In April this year, minister incharge of district Lal Singh Arya had promised to announce the tribal region as drought-affected area. "But the government seems to have forgotten its promise," tribal Rajesh Singh said."After the Supreme Court directions for drought-affected areas, tribal children should have been getting mid-day meal had this place been announced as 'sookha grast'. The tribals would also have been getting wages under MGNREGA scheme," said Shabnam Afghani who is associated with Ekta Parishad and works with villagers.
Ahmedabad, Jun 9 () Senior   Congress leader   Shankersinh Vaghela today said his party will strive to give 20 per cent reservation for the Economically Backward Classes (EBC) in the general category, against the 10 per cent announced by the   BJP government, if his party came to power in Gujarat. Vaghela, the Leader of Opposition in   Gujarat Assembly , made the promise to the jailed Patel quota leader   Hardik Patel in a letter, circulated to media by the latter's lawyer Yashwantsinh Vala. Hardik, in his letter on May 11, had asked Vaghela to give a definite assurance about the EBC quota after the Congress demanded that government double the quota and raise the income ceiling to Rs 12 lakh from the current Rs 6 lakh. Last month, the BJP government announced a 10 per cent quota for the EBC among the upper castes including the   Patels . The Patel community had launched a violent agitation for   OBC quota last year. Vaghela, in the letter, also accused the BJP government of holding a grudge against Hardik and other Patel leaders who are languishing in jail in a sedition case. The people will give a fitting reply to such arrogance, he said. He was putting Congress's support for 20 per cent EBC quota demand out of "moral responsibility", said the letter. The letter also praised Hardik for showing "immense courage". Congress is out of power in Gujarat since 1995. Assembly polls are due next year. Hardik, in his letter, had hinted that Patels would support Congress if it promised to increase EBC quota. PJT PD KRK IKA
CHENNAI: A teacher from Viluppuram district was suspended on Thursday after she burned her primary school students with camphor fire as a punishment for irregular attendance and poor academic performance.      The incident happened on Thursday morning in Paali Panchayath primary school near Ulundurpet. Vaijayanthi Mala, a 4th standard teacher, called 13 of her students and burned their feet.      The students were admitted to the Ulundurpettai government hospital on Friday morning for treatment. They had blisters on their feet.      After conducting an investigation, Vilupuram district Chief Education Officer immediately suspended the teacher and ordered a further investigation by the Education Department.      Read this story in Tamil      (Content courtesy: Tamil Samayam)
Ahmedabad: There was a major uproar among patients and relatives at the Institute for Kidney Diseases and Research Centre (IKDRC) when entry to the ICU and other wards was closed almost an hour and a half before CM Anandiben Patel and her family visted the hospital to meet the recipients of the organs donated by the CM's sister Manjula, who passed away recently. The CM met Shambhushankar and Ritaben who received Manjulaben's kidney and liver respectively. The CM had made the decision to donate her sister's organs. Patients alleged that the OPD and other services were suspended in wake of the VIP visit. "I had come for to get an X-ray done on my relative but was turned away. We were all detained in a room with nobody answering our queries. We may not be VIPs but deserve to be treated with dignity," said Ramjibhai, a patient's relative.Director of the hospital Dr H L Trivedi said that the hospital is perpetually overcrowded. "There is space for 100 patients and relatives but some thousand-odd people remain present. The crowds were only contained, there was no major uproar," said Dr Trivedi.
BHOPAL: Now orthopaedically handicapped, paraplegic and specially abled passengers will be able to go for rail travel alone, without an attendant. They will also be given tickets on concessional rates which are currently provided only when they have an attendant with them. A notification was issued in this regard by the railway board on Wednesday following an order of the high court of Madras. In one of its orders, the court said, "The disabled persons who are not accompanied by any attendant should not be denied concession." The orders will be implemented from June 15 throughout the country, said a senior official from Bhopal division. Currently, as per IRCA coaching tariff No. 26 part I (Volume II) 25 and 29, concession in passenger fare is permissible for orthopaedically handicapped, paraplegic and specially abled who cannot travel without an attendant. They are given 75 per cent concession in tickets for second class, sleeper, first class, AC and chair car, while the concession is 50 per cent in AC 2 tier and AC first class on producing adequate certificates. 50 per cent concession is inj the form of seasonal discount on ticket for them.Adding to the facilities in railways for disabled passengers, tickets issued through computerised passenger reservation system, one lower berth should be allotted to the handicapped person and the person accompanying him/her person should be allotted middle or upper berths, nearby, as available. After departure of the train, if there are vacant lower berths available in the train, and if any physically handicapped person has booked ticket under handicapped concessional ticket system, he/she should be allotted the lower birth as per the requirement.
AURANGABAD: The British Council in association with MGM Clover Dale School here has announced special reading initiative for children in the age group of 5- 14 years.Titled as 'The Reading Challenge', the programme will be conducted till August with orientation event to be held on Saturday at the Einstein Hall on the MGM Campus from 4 pm. It will be an open event for children who have a love for reading."A love of reading can improve our ability to think critically, enhance our vocabulary and make us better writers. It is important to inculcate the reading habit in children. Hence, this year the school has invited British Council, to conduct the Reading Challenge in Aurangabad," a school release said.The Reading Challenge is a 6 week program by British Council and The Reading Agency (UK). After registration, the students read minimum six theme -based books in the time span of six weeks."The theme is designed to suit the children's interest and age. The program encourages the child to read at home exclusive books written and illustrated by UK Authors and IllustratorsThe challenge encourages the student to read the book and write the its reviews also," School authorities said. Students, who complete the Reading Challenge successfully, will be awarded with participation certificate endorsed by British Council, it said.
BAREILLY: After the collapse of the British-era canal bridge collapsed two years ago, the residents of Mudiya Hafiz village, with a population of 6,000, were cut off from their business centre in Dhoron Tanda town. On that their pleas to the government seeking its construction fell on deaf ears. That's when the villagers, mainly farmers, decided to take matters in their hands. They pooled in Rs 50,000 and finally got the village lifeline back."The bridge became weak over the years and finally collapsed. We wrote to the concerned authorities and even met officials personally but nobody took any step to solve our problem. Finally, after running from pillar to post, we decided to take things on our own hands and went ahead with the idea," said Mahendra Pal, a local teacher.He added, "People from various castes and faiths collected a sum of over Rs 50,000 for this noble cause."The villagers hired a contractor for the construction of the 15-feet-long bridge and it was ready in 12 days in September last year."We could not get the boundary of bridge constructed because of the lack of funds. The bridge might not be perfect aesthetically, it has made our lives easier," said Pal.The bridge was a necessity here as it connects this village having population of nearly 6,000 with Dhoron Tanda town area."All the major markets are in town and we have to daily commute there for purchasing and selling our ware. We had to take alternate route which is usually flooded with water," said Mohammed Umar, village headman.When contacted, block development officer, Bhojipura, Pramila Sharma, said, "The villagers got bridge constructed over the canal. However, the quality of bridge is not good; it is offering better connectivity to them."
Agra: At a time when news of a kidney racket in a prominent Delhi hospital is dominating headlines, four youngsters from the city are set to embark on a 4,525km-long journey from Kanyakumari to Leh on their cycles on June 17 to promulgate the cause of organ donation. What makes their story even more remarkable is that three of them are national-level athletes; all are MBA, MCom, MTech and MSc graduates, are Indian Army aspirants; and, have quit their jobs, put in all their savings for this arduous, but admirable, expedition that has 'GORGAN - Go For Organ' as its tagline. The four men -- Manoj Sharma, Saransh Goswami, Suchitr Singh and Vikramjeet Randhawa - are also practicing what they preach as they have pledged to donate their organs, a decision that has earned them plaudits on social networking sites. However, it was clear when speaking to 25-year-old Manoj, a national-level volleyball player who currently administers tuition classes to commerce students, that he and his group of friends didn't look to play up their act of altruism. "The four of us have adventure in our blood but we wanted our energy to be utilized for a good cause. There has been an upsurge in illegal organ trading in the country because people refuse to donate organs to people who really need them. This triggered an idea that we should travel the length and breadth of the country on our cycles to spread the message of organ donation." Admirable the expedition may sound now, but making it into a reality was fraught with several problems. Funding and worried parents were two of the primary obstacles. Saransh Goswami, a national-level swimmer who recently left his job in Faridabad as a design engineer, said, "It was Manoj's idea of blending adventure with an awareness campaign. We visited AIIMS in New Delhi, contacted several doctors and businessmen to help fund our expedition, but no-one extended any support. So we finally decided to put all our savings to fund our expedition." "Our parents were worried as well. But now they have come around to our plan," he added. The trip will start from Kanyakumari and will end at Leh by the end of August. They plan to ride for 50 days, covering more than 43 cities including Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi, Panjim, Mumbai, Vadodara, Udaipur, Ajmer, Panipat, Manali and Debring. They will extend their expedition till Khardung La, provided they get support from sponsors to fund their campaign.  At present, the four regularly cycle 50 kilometres and play badminton in order to be in prime condition for the mammoth task they are about to embark upon. According to them, they will ride roughly 100km every day.  The other two Samaritans, Suchitr Singh and Vikramjeet Randhawa, have also taken time off their regular lives to pedal information about the merits of organ donation. While Suchitr has played national-level football, Vikramjeet is now pursuing his masters in social work.
Aurangabad: A crucial general body meeting on the controversial Rs 792-crore parallel water supply scheme may happen within three days as four members of the civic standing committee have demanded mayor Trimbak Tupe to hold it. As per norms, the mayor has to convene a special general body meeting if at least four members of the standing committee demand it. Committee members Nitin Chitte, Kailash Gaikwad, Manisha Munde and Kirti Shinde have made the demand in written a letter to Tupe on Thursday. Chitte confirmed the development and said the civic body should hold the meeting at the earliest so that corporators could debate on the project. Earlier in the day, municipal commissioner Om Prakash Bakoria told reporters that a special general body meeting would be held before June 30.The high court had directed the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation to convene the meeting to take a call on the fate of the public private partnership (PPP)-model project that has been in the eye of constant criticism.In April, Tupe had announced that he would call a special meeting and give all corporators an opportunity to express their views on the project. However, the meeting got delayed. Apart from this, the issue of water scarcity could not find place in general body meetings held in Aparil and May when the watercity was at its peak.Bokoria on Thursday said the delay is because the administration has been preparing a detailed proposal on the matter. "We are giving due weightage to all angles associated with the project. It is a time-consuming job. We will also seek permission from the high court on the issue," he said.Bokoria said the administration would send the proposal to the mayor in three or four days, following which the meeting would be convened.In an apparent bid to evade awkward questions on the controversial water distribution project, the Shiv Sena-led municipal body has been delaying the meeting.Raising doubts over the feasibility of the project, corporators from BJP and the opposition parties have been demanding a meeting to explore opportunities to cancel the project. The civic body has roped in a private player to execute the project under public-private partnership model. The project, known as Samantar Jal Wahini Scheme was launched in September 2014, questions are being raised regarding its future.The project was supposed to be over in three years and it was said that citizens would get tap water 24X7. However, two years have passed since the project was launched and people still get water only once in three or four days.
BHOPAL: Usha Kiran Kendras would be established independently at district government hospital premises across Madhya Pradesh to provide services like medication, legal aid, police help, skill training and counselling — all under one roof — to women and girls of domestic violence, assault and abuse.The scheme provides for setting up government-run shelter homes that would take care of aggrieved women who could live there till they desire. It has been revived after eight years following orders of Jabalpur bench of MP high court, issued on May 27, 2015.The scheme was being run since 2008 by NGOs who provide services at the shelter home. A writ petition was filed in 2014 in Jabalpur bench of MP high court.Giving more information about new Usha Kiran Kendras, Prema Sethi, joint director, women empowerment, said, "This scheme was launched earlier for Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005. The centres will be set up across the state in three phases, in three years."Following amendments in the scheme, all departments, including women and child development, have been taken on board to help in overall development and rehabilitation of women who have suffered in life. Other departments roped in include public health and family welfare, home and law.A nine-member committee, including heads of these departments and a civil society member, would be formed to monitor its implementation in the state. A nine-member panel would also be constituted in each district that would have collector, superintendent of police, chief medical and health officer, legal assistance officer, prosecution officer, district women empowerment officer, two civil society members and district project officer.Adding on, Sethi said, "Gwalior, Ujjain and Satna already have government-owned Nari Niketans. These will be converted into Usha Kendras immediately. For Bhopal, search is on for a building that is near all important places."GFX:Infrastructure: Beds - 10 (5 beds under Sakhi Yojana) Women desk Video conferencing office Counselling and medical aid centre Kitchen, toilets and lobbyGrants:Rs 50 lakh allotted at state level and Rs 3 lakh at district level for information, education and communication. Total project budget is Rs 119.72 lakhThree phases: 1st — 2016-17: Usha Kiran Kendras in municipal corporation dists with available building 2nd - 2017-18: Centres to be made on district hospital campuses with available land 3rd - 2018-19: Centres to be made in district hospitals that lack land and space
Aurangabad: The civic body on Thursday set up 'town vending committees' comprising representatives of hawkers, NGOs, social activists and other stakeholders. The committes are expected to provide a legal platform to hawkers to raise their issues. The central government has mandated formation of these committees under the national policy on urban street vendors.The four committees, consisting of 24 people, including eight women, will meet at regular intervals and take up the issues of hawkers. Mohasin Ahmed, a member of one of the committees, said that the formation of the committees has given respite to hawkers who are facing lot of hardships. "In a bid to streamline traffic movement, the city police and the municipal authorities have been taking regular action against hawkers on roadsides and at vegetable markets. Cases have also been registered against hawkers. There was no legal platform from where the hawkers could highlight their issues," he said. Ahmed said he would demand dedicate hawker zones in the city and urged the authorities to issue licences to hawkers. The AMC has recently removed hawkers from TV Centre, Pundlik Nagar, Gajanan Maharaj Mandir Road, Kumbhar, Aurangpura and the railway station area, where they occupy public utility space. The presence of hawkers is also leading to severe shortage of parking space. One of the hawkers said the authorities should provide proper space for them. "There is no dedicated space for us and so we have no other option but to set up shops on footpaths." For the past few years, the AMC is scouting for a suitable land for setting up hawkers zone.
HYDERABAD: While 'She cabs' were launched amid much fanfare, it is clear that the initiative has been a big flop with only six such cabs operating in the entire city.In fact since its inception in November 2015, only 4,623 trips have been made by women cabbies, as per figures from the Cyberabad Traffic police at the pre-paid booth in RGIA.With an average of 20 trips a day by all She cabs put together, six of the operational cabs run just an average of three trips a day, against eight by regular cabs.The She cab initiative has been plagued by several problems. Among many issues, women drivers who had signed up for new vehicles after getting a hefty subsidy are now finding driving `too taxing'. Besides this, some drivers have been involved in minor accidents, many avoid peak hour traffic or have given up driving, authorities confess. "Initially we had selected 18 applicants of whom 10 started driving She cabs at the time of its launch. There have been no new applications since," said deputy transport commissioner, Hyderabad, C Ramesh. RTA authorities have sent notices to the 10 selected applicants asking them to return to work.Meanwhile, the ill-planned initiative is proving costly for women commuters."Once you ask for a She cab at the traffic booth, you can be made to wait for anywhere between one to two hours. It happened to me last week.Authorities were not willing to allot a regular cab even after waiting for 40 minutes. It is like if you opt for a She cab, you will have to take a She cab, no matter what!" said Rachna Shah, a commuter.Insiders say a major reason behind the flop is that the women are not well trained."Many don't know city roads and are scared to go to certain areas in outskirts," said a source.
Bengaluru: Busy implementing the rules to regulate taxi aggregators, the transport department has run afoul of traditional cab operators. Cab operators staged a protest on Thursday, objecting to the department issuing contract carriage or state permits to 100 cabs affiliated to taxi aggregator Ola. The new state guidelines are at variance with the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, under which intra-city cabs should have city-taxi permits and not state permits, said the old economy operators.   Ola, a cab aggregator that brings together drivers and customers on its platform but does not own vehicles, has obtained permits for 100 cabs and is in the process of applying for more licences. Under the Karnataka On-Demand Transportation Technology Aggregator Rules, 2016, an aggregator has to get a licence for every fleet of 100 taxis.   RK Holla, secretary, Bangalore Tourist Taxi Owners Association, said: "Contract carriage permits were issued instead of city-taxi permits. RTOofficials confirmed the same. This may lead to complications. We request RTO officials to take action or norms for aggregators will hold no water. We may be forced to protest or take up the matter legally if the government does not change the norms."   The old economy players fear that aggregators will extend their services beyond the city if their vehicles have state permits, thus eating into their revenue. About 100 cabbies protested outside the transport commissioner's office, and the department put on hold the issuance of contract carriage permits for a fortnight.   The protest has given the transport authorities, who are already fighting cab aggregators' reluctance to fall in line, something else to think about. Ola is the first aggregator to get the licences.   H G Kumar, state transport authority officer and additional commissioner of transport, told TOI: "There is not much difference between city and state permits. We got information that many Ola and Uber cabs get bookings for Mysuru, Hassan and Tumakuru from Kempegowda International Airport. Ola and airport authorities have an agreement to allow passengers to book Ola cabs from the airport. We don't have a problem as long as vehicles comply with other rules like having a panic button and GPS/GPRS device, and don't charge more than the rates fixed by the government."   BONE OF CONTENTION   Cabs have been operating with either an all-India or a state/city-taxi permit. The permit defines a cab's area of operation and is issued under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. However, the Karnataka On-Demand Transportation Technology Aggregator Rules, 2016, framed under the MV Act, requires aggregators to operate cabs with contract carriage permits, which are essentially state permits. Traditional cab operators say this is in violation of Rule 64 of the MV Act, and say aggregators will use the state permits to extend their operations and elbow them out of business    COMPLAINTS GALORE    A Bengalurean who lost money on an Ola ride he didn't take has posted his complaint on Facebook. Last week, Unni Krishnanbooked an Ola cab from his home in Bhartinagarnear Fraser Town. "I couldn't spot the car despite having received the text message that the driver has arrived. I tried calling the driver but got no response. When I checked the status of my request, the app showed the ride was on. The second call to the driver also went in vain. When I tried to cancel the ride, the app didn't give me any such option because it showed I was using the service. Then I booked another cab. In 30 minutes, I got an SMS with invoice from Ola for the cab I didn't use and lost money from my e-wallet. I wrote to the company and got the money back with the promise that action would be initiated against the driver," Krishnan wrote on Facebook. This is not an isolated incident as many users have complained about drivers not turning up or ending trips on a whim. Another resident Shyam Vasudevanhas started a petition on change.org, titled Stop Silent Robbery By Ola.
Ahmedabad: A team of Gandhinagar police's local crime branch (LCB) arrested three people allegedly involved in the Rs 5 crore robbery near Bavla on June 3. The accused will be handed over to Bavla police station for further questioning. Gandhinagar police arrested Yogesh Joshi, a resident of Koba, Ramu Bharwad and Rakesh Rabari, residents of Gandhinagar, from their hideouts on Thursday. They were found in possession of a car used in the incident, gold beads and silver bars worth Rs 1.12 lakh and Rs 54,000 in cash."Joshi is a native of Banaskantha and Bharwad is a native of Patan. Their roles include supporting the persons directly involved in the incident and sheltering the accused. Along with the car and three phones used by the trio, we seized valuables worth Rs 2.68 lakh," said Ashutosh Parmar, inspector of LCB . On June 3, a truck carrying valuables to Rajkot from multiple angadia firms based in Ahmedabad was stopped by a uniformed State Reserve Police (SRP) constable near Adroda village at 11.30 pm on the pretext of vehicle checking. The robbers then overpowered the driver and two security guards, took the truck to a desolate spot and robbed 27 of the 70-odd parcels. Ahmedabad rural police solved the case by arresting six persons.
Bhopal: Two days after a Class XII student and an aspiring model was beaten up during a fashion show held at Aashima Mall, police said that she in her statement mentioned that the event organiser Faizan Khan was the mastermind behind this attack and he too should be booked Meanwhile, members of a Hindu organisation went to Misrod police station on Wednesday and protested against the fashion show culture in the city while demanding action against the organiser and the accused.  Aspiring model Simran, 18, was beaten up for objecting to showstopper Kanak Soni's bouncer from entering changing room of models. Soni and her bouncer who is yet to be identified, thrashed her so badly that she sustained injuries and was hospitalised while another model was locked in a room.  Initially, a case was registered against showstopper and her bouncer for beating up the model. Misrod police station house officer Kuwar Singh Mukati told TOI that Khan could also be made accused in the case apart from Kanak Soni and her bouncer. The fashion show was organised but police was not informed, he added.  There were close to 100 people attending the fashion show. The fight led to tension in the area after which cops reached and stopped the event.
BHOPAL: A 30-year-old man, brother of a local BJP youth wing leader, was beaten to death and dumped in a nullah by two youths, including a teenaged boy, in a brawl while boozing.  Though the incident took place on June 1 and the man died a day later, but a case of murder was registered at the Habibganj police station on Tuesday after the autopsy report confirmed murder. Police said both the accused have been taken into custody.  Police said that the deceased, Sandeep Singh, a resident of Durga Nagar slums, was brother of a local leader, Kuldeep Thakur. Sandeep was boozing with Akash, 23, and a minor boy. However, he had a fight with the duo. They beat him up near 5 number bus stop and again near a nullah in the same locality.  The duo threw him in the nullah and escaped. His family later took him home, thinking that he must have fallen under the influence of liquor. However, Sandeep's condition deteriorated next day and he died while he was being rushed to hospital. Police said both the accused worked at different shops at 5 number bus stop.  They were arrested and the two confessed to their crime, police added.  It is the fourth murder reported in the city in past three days. In two of the four murders, accused were minors while in another, a woman stabbed her live-in partner to death her. Of the four murders, two were due to illicit relations, one was due to monetary dispute and the other was consequence of a brawl while boozing.
CHENNAI: On May 15, 2016, the India Meterological Department predicted that the southwest monsoon is likely to set in over Kerala around June 7. But, a team of Russian and German scientists predicted on May 6 that the monsoon would begin over Eastern ghats advancing from Kerala four days before or after June 13.The team, working from Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK) in Germany , adopted a novel approach and used certain precursors like change in temperature and humidity in the land for their prediction. The team has now collaborated with researchers in Aerospace Engineering at IIT-Madras to use the same approach, used to predict the change in weather, to study combustion instability in gas turbines used to generate electricity in thermal power plants.Elena Surovyatkina from Russian Academy of Sciences' Space Research Institute and a visiting professor at PIK said while IMD looks at the atmosphere, ocean and climate data for precursors in predicting the onset of monsoon, they have looked at the land for predictors.With satellite data of previous years from NASA, the scientists observed a strong variance in surface air temperature and relative humidity over Eastern Ghats and North Pakistan, that begins almost a month before the onset of monsoon. These fluctuations, the professor said, occur due to the inclination of the Sun causing rise in temperature, air masses converging to produce low atmospheric pressure and other local phenomena. These changes in temperature and humidity , eventually become precursors in the early prediction of monsoon."Right now, IMD predicts Southwest monsoon only over Kerala and later for the rest of the country , whereas we predicted over Eastern ghats first. Ours and IMDs are different approaches and both are accurate. Different approaches will only help improve predictability. It will help farmers more than anyone," she said.With the same approach, the professor said they will predict the withdrawal of southwest monsoon, which is also the onset of northeast monsoon, by July 15. "IMD usually predicts the withdrawal by September," the professor said. "We chose to study Indian monsoon as part of the global monsoon system, as it is one of the tipping elements of the earth."To validate their approach, Surovyatkina said they compared their predictions with that of IMDs for 58 years since 1957 and found an accuracy of 73% in the prediction of onset of monsoon and 84% in the prediction of withdrawal of the season.The team proposed their approach to IMD. They are also likely to receive funding from Telangana government to get to the next stage of the study where they are planning to predict monsoon in different parts of the country .
Bhopal: Rajya Sabha elections in the state, scheduled for June 11, is getting more complicated for the BJP by the hour. It's a vote-by-vote fight between the ruling party and the Congress for the third seat -- a contest between Supreme Court advocate Vivek Tankha and sitting state BJP general secretary Vinod Gothia.On Thursday, the state Congress approached the high court in Jabalpur with an appeal to permit voting by postal ballot for Leader of Opposition Satyadev Katare, who is critically ill and is undergoing treatment at the Hiranandani Hospital in Mumbai. The court granted permission and directed the Election Commission to issue postal ballot for Katare. State EC office said that a copy of the order has been received and the postal ballot is being sent.Two hours after high court order, the Independent candidate supported by the BJP, Vinod Gothia, went on appeal challenging the order. His appeal will be heard on Friday by the high court, the state BJP office said. There were also murmurs that the EC could file a writ arguing that postal ballot cannot be issued on grounds of ill health. However, speaking to TOI a senior EC official said, "The EC did not go into appeal in the first place, so how can the HC order be challenged? We have received a copy of the court's order and will follow the directives." Hearing another appeal, the high court also gave bail to rape accused Congress MLA from Badwani Ramesh Patel, who, thereby, will now be able to come to Bhopal and vote for his party's candidates on Saturday.The Congress has 57 MLAs in the assembly and needed just one vote to send Tankha to the Upper House. Falling short of a single seat, former Union minister Kamal Nath had approached Bahujan Samaj Party leader Mayawati for her support. Mayawati last week issued a whip to all four BSP MLAs in Madhya Pradesh to vote for Tankha. However, that support was shaken after a photograph of the BSP MLA from Dimni (Morena) Balbir Singh Dandotiya with the minister of state for urban administration Lal Singh Arya hit the news channels on Thursday morning.Kamal Nath, who has been put in charge of the Rajya Sabha polls for Congress, reached the party office the same afternoon and started a one-on-one meeting with every party MLA. The party fears that if a BSP MLA can break Mayawati's whip, then Congress MLAs are not insulated at all from ruling BJP's advances. Atleast six Congress MLAs are under close watch, said a source in the party.
Bhopal: Introduction of online practical exam for bachelor of engineering courses has triggered a tussle between students and Rajiv Gandhi Proudhyogiki Vishwavidyalaya (RGPV) after over 2800 students were declared fail in it. Apart from it, 400 students of B.Pharma also failed in the online practical exam. This is the first time in the state such high number of students have been declared fail in practical exam. State's only technical university had launched online practical exam to inculcate the habit of regularly attending lab experiments during academic classes. However, the decision did not go down well among 2841 students who failed the exam. They have now filed a complaint with the RGPV, demanding that the online practical exam should be discontinued. "This is injustice with us. I had scored 75 per cent in theory and still not able to believe that I have failed practical exam," said a student without quoting his name. Another student said, "University should have given at least 6 months to acquaint the students with the new system. In fact, if they had provided sample papers then it would have been a big help." Students also claimed that such high number of failed candidates will send a wrong message. "We are not against the online system, but the university should have ensured that the students were properly informed about the new system. Several students could not understand the level of questions asked in the exam, which led to such a poor result," said another student.For last couple of years, university had been receiving complaints that students were not taking practical exams seriously. "As external teachers come to college to complete formality, students do not give proper attention to practicals, which was defeating the purpose of learning practical studies," said a senior teaching faculty of RGPV without quoting his name.Exam controller, Mohan Sen, said, "It was noticed that almost all students were getting passing marks in practical. In order to end the practice, the university introduced to overhaul practical exams process. Introducing online practical test was a part of that process." He added, "The decision was taken to motivate students to attend laboratories on regular basis." About the failure of such high number of students, he said, "There were very normal questions that were asked in the online test." There are around 200 engineering colleges affiliated to RGPV.
Firozabad: Union minister for environment and forests Prakash Javadekar on Thursday blamed the Samajwadi Party government in Uttar Pradesh for the violence in Mathura on June 2. "Whatever happened in Mathura was the result of the SP government's patronage to the anarchist and his cult. The state government allowed him (Ram Vriksha Yadav) to flourish for so long. Why is the government now running away from a CBI investigation?" said the minister. He was in Firozabad to publicise the success of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government at the Centre over the last two years.   To a query regarding UP minister Shivpal Yadav seeking an apology from the BJP for alleging his role in protecting the Swadheen Bharat Subhash Sena (SBSS) chief, Javadekar said, "What proof is Shivpal seeking from us? For two long years the state government allowed the anarchist to flourish in the middle of the city, surrounded by offices of the district magistrate and other senior government officials. The government is responsible for the violence and needs to answer these questions."  The Union minister expressed confidence that BJP will form the next government in UP. "Now I am reading the mood of people who are fed up of SP and BSP rule for the last 15 years. People are now in favour of BJP," he added.  Javadekar also charges made by his cabinet colleague Maneka Gandhi that his ministry is allowing the killing of innocent animals and said that such decisions were taken on the proposal of the state governments and as per the law.  "I will not comment on who said what. The ministry gives its nod to cull certain animals for a specified period in a specific reason in a scientific manner, based on the proposals of the state governments. We cannot overlook the plight of farmers whose crops are destroyed by these animals," the minister said.
Hyderabad: Over 4000 South Central Railway (SCR) employees held a protest rally and submitted a strike notice to the SCR general manager Ravindra Gupta on Thursday, announcing an indefinite strike from July 11, in support of the all India strike by central government employee unions. The SCR Mazdoor Union that served the strike notice is demanding a minimum pay of Rs 26,000, five promotions during service, 5 per cent increment, implementation of 6 hours duty to running staff among other demands. With the strike notice served by the largest employees union in the zone, the entire railway machinery stands a threat to come to a screeching halt.
Bhopal: Following repeated pleas for baby food on board trains, Indian railways has finally launched Janani Sewa Scheme across the country on Wednesday. Full-fledged service to make baby food and milk available on stations under west central railway, including Bhopal, can be availed from the next week."Letters have been sent to all the senior officials to kick off the services on priority," said IA Siddiqui, spokesperson, railways. Named as Janani Sewa, the scheme will ensure availability of essential items like hot milk and water at stations. On the first day, the services were introduced at over 25 stations, including New Delhi, Mumbai Central, Howrah, Chennai, Nagpur, Pune, Surat, Lucknow and Moradabad. Besides baby food, a menu prepared by IRCTC, which aims to make train journeys more happening for children, offers food items like French fries, noodles, burgers and meal combos. These meals can be ordered through e-catering website of IRCTC, a specified phone number, SMS, mobile app or a four digit all-India toll free number --1323. The service will be available for children in the age group of 5-12 years.
Bhopal: State cabinet headed by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, on Wednesday, approved increasing cabinet ministers' annual discretionary development fund to Rs50 lakh from Rs20 lakh and that of ministers of state to Rs35 lakh from Rs15 lakh. Earlier this month, in another cabinet meeting, the state had enhanced annual discretionary fund of assembly Speaker to Rs1 crore from Rs75 lakh. Deputy speaker's limit of discretionary funds was also hiked from Rs15 lakh to Rs 50 lakh and that of leader of Opposition from Rs20 lakh to Rs50 lakh.As severe water crisis continues this summer, cabinet sanctioned Rs14,827 crore for 37 new surface group drinking water schemes. An additional sanction of Rs3,734 crore has been approved for 10 revised group drinking water schemes. "In total, government has approved Rs 18,561 crore for the second phase of Nal-Jal Scheme which will directly benefit 1.47 crore of rural population," minister for health and government spokesman Narottam Mishra said. He added that there is a proposal to take loan for the scheme from World Bank and Asian Development Bank.Government claimed that under the scheme, every family would receive 70 litres of water daily through 13,316 villages in Mandsaur, Ratlam, Bhopal, Vidisha, Sagar, Damoh, Panna, Tikamgarh, Jabalpur, Satna, Seoni and several other districts. Moreover, the firm given responsibility for laying water connection would have to operate and maintain the same for 20 years.In another important decision, cabinet endorsed giving one per cent more i.e. 6% annual subsidy to women entrepreneurs for maximum 7 years under the Mukhyamantri Yuva Udyami Yojana. Cabinet also approved giving margin money of Rs 3 lakh instead of Rs 2 lakh or 30% capital investment under Mukhyamantri Swarozgar Yojana to entrepreneurs belonging to de-notified, nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes. Cabinet sanctioned margin money of Rs one lakh or 20 per cent of project cost under Mukhyamantri Swarozgar Yojana through Bhopal Gas Tragedy Relief and Rehabilitation Department to beneficiaries of gas-affected families on fulfilling all eligibility criteria.Government decided to extend guarantee of Rs600 crore short-term loans to be made available to state's power distribution companies from Power Finance Corporation, New Delhi. As working capital, all three power distribution companies would be provided Rs200 crore each.
Bhopal: Karhal block of Sheopur district sees day temperatures hovering around 47 degrees while the water table has sunk to 350 feet. With food and water scarce, minister incharge of district Lal Singh Arya had, in April, promised to announce the region drought-affected. District collector Panna Lal Solanki clarified, "The decision not to declare it drought-affected was based on the fact that the block had received 50% rainfall last year." Rana Singh, an educated tribal, said that more than 5000 people migrated from the parched block leaving behind the elderly and cattle. To this, Solanki said, "Things are under control now and people who migrated have returned. Even otherwise, you cannot call it migration as they go out every year for better job prospects.""After the Supreme Court directions for drought-affected areas, tribal children should have been getting mid-day meal had this place been announced as 'sookha grast'. The tribals would also have been getting wages under MGNREGA scheme," said Shabnam Afghani who is associated with Ekta Parishad and works with villagers.Two days ago, when the district collector visited Karhal and found villagers constructing an earthen dam, he wanted to know what was happening. Speaking to TOI, Mani Ram, a tribal, said, "We told the government official that 'the government was not providing jobs, so we are helping ourselves."Welt Hunger Hilfe (WHH), a German organisation, is distributing 10 kg of wheat flour and 1 kg of moong dal to a person from every family residing deep inside the tribal district of Sheopur that borders Rajasthan. It is also providing grains in lieu of wages to tribals working at construction site of three earthen dams. Then, there are tankers that supply water to the residents.WHH programme manager Vijay Rai said, "We have been working globally. We went to earthquake-hit Nepal and drought-plagued Ethiopia, among others. We thought situation in Karhal is serious and requires urgent intervention. With the help of Gandhi Seva Ashram and Ekta Parishad, we are trying to reduce woes of tribals.""After identifying the issues, we came up with three-four solutions, including food support for those who don't have any support system from family or society." Incidentally, only elders and cattle are left at many places in Karhal following the massive migration. Besides, many tribals have returned but there is no work in Karhal.Ekta Parishad president Ran Singh Parmar said, "Construction of earthen dams started at Sadvi Adhbada and Kapooria villages is providing job to tribals." He added, "Ground water of large number of villages will be recharged."
CHENNAI: In what could rekindle warmth between erstwhile partners, BJP state president Tamilisai Sounderarajan said she perceived a change in the Jayalalithaa regime in the state.The BJP leader, a critic of the AIADMK government until recently, felt there was a healthy trend emerging with Jayalalithaa proposing to meet PM Narendra Modi in New Delhi next week. The BJP leader told TOI that the ruling AIADMK which has consolidated its strength in the Parliament with 50 MPs should extend support to NDA on the passage of crucial bills like GST. Not long ago, AIADMK's mouth piece Namadhu MGR had mocked Tamilisai for her critical stand on various fronts, including corruption and liqu or policy . Now she sees hope in AIADMK in ending indiscriminate sand mining and commerciali zation of education. "Jayalalithaa skipped meetings of chief ministers in the past, while PM, violating protocol met, her at her residence in Chennai. Today , she is planning to meet PM with TN schemes in hand. We welcome it," the BJP leader said, adding, "We criticise only when we need to."Shutting down of 500 Tasmac outlets and achieving surplus power state are all clear signs of change, Tamilsai said."Jayalalithaa offered an explanation on the controversy over seating arrangements for DMK's M K Stalin for the swearing-in ceremony . I am also told that arrangements are being made for DMK chief M Karunanidhi to attend assembly ," she said. Tamilisai has plans to meet Jayalalithaa after her Delhi visit and hand over development plans for TN.The BJP leader hoped that there would be changes in the state's stand on Central schemes like LED bulbs, the contentious Ujwal DISCOM Assurance Yojana, and road and rail infrastructure. In the run-up to the election, the BJP leaders, including national president Amit Shah accused the AIADMK regime of corruption.Minister Piyush Goyal alleged that Jayalalithaa remained inaccessible and faced difficulties in implementing UDAY in the state, while Prakash Javedekar slammed the state's failure to send its conservation plan for the Western Ghats.
Bengaluru, Jun 9 () The   Karnataka government today accepted the resignation of a senior woman police officer, reportedly at loggerheads with the   Labour Minister, as she stuck to her decision surfacing days after quitting and remaining incommunicado. "The resignation of   Anupama Shenoy , DySP Kudlgi sub-division,   Ballari District , has been accepted by the government with immediate effect," a notification issued by the state government said. She had tendered her resignation on June 4 after accusing Labour Minister P T   Parameshwar Naik , also the district in-charge minister, of interfering in her work. Shenoy, who had remained incommunicado since resigning, surfaced today in Kudligi. The police had set up a special team to track her down, whose alleged posts on   Facebook levelling accusations against Naik had created a storm in political circles. Ballari SP yesterday had deputed an officer to go to her hometown   Udupi to contact Shenoy and her family. Earlier, in the day Shenoy had refused to meet   Kudligi in-charge DySP R S Patil , who went to her official quarters. Following protests by a group of people against her for taking three persons into preventive detention, Shenoy left the office on June 4 after handing over her resignation letter to subordinate officers, instructing them to hand it over to the Superintendent of Police. Officials had said Shenoy was acting on a complaint by Dalit activists against the extension of a liquor shop that was blocking the way to   Ambedkar Bhavan nearby. Shenoy today said, "I stand by my decision to resign." Asked about her Facebook posts, she said "I don't know about Facebook; someone might be doing it in my name, it might have been hacked also." Naik had said he has nothing to do with the officer's resignation and expressed doubts about the veracity of the Facebook account and its user. In January, Shenoy was transferred allegedly at the behest of Naik for putting his call on hold, with the incident triggering a storm. A video footage purportedly showing Naik making a boastful claim about shunting out Shenoy had also gone viral later. Chief Minister Siddaramaiahhad said the government would not take any hasty decision and would want her to continue in the force, but also pointed out that she was bound by rules. BDN KSU VS PVI
HYDERABAD: While 'She cabs' were launched amid much fanfare, it is clear that the initiative has been a big flop with only six such cabs operating in the entire city.In fact since its inception in November 2015, only 4,623 trips have been made by women cabbies, as per figures from the Cyberabad Traffic police at the pre-paid booth in RGIA.With an average of 20 trips a day by all She cabs put together, six of the operational cabs run just an average of three trips a day, against eight by regular cabs.The She cab initiative has been plagued by several problems. Among many issues, women drivers who had signed up for new vehicles after getting a hefty subsidy are now finding driving `too taxing'. Besides this, some drivers have been involved in minor accidents, many avoid peak hour traffic or have given up driving, authorities confess. "Initially we had selected 18 applicants of whom 10 started driving She cabs at the time of its launch. There have been no new applications since," said deputy transport commissioner, Hyderabad, C Ramesh. RTA authorities have sent notices to the 10 selected applicants asking them to return to work.Meanwhile, the ill-planned initiative is proving costly for women commuters."Once you ask for a She cab at the traffic booth, you can be made to wait for anywhere between one to two hours. It happened to me last week.Authorities were not willing to allot a regular cab even after waiting for 40 minutes. It is like if you opt for a She cab, you will have to take a She cab, no matter what!" said Rachna Shah, a commuter.Insiders say a major reason behind the flop is that the women are not well trained."Many don't know city roads and are scared to go to certain areas in outskirts," said a source.
HYDERABAD: Eager to transform Hyderabad into a global city, the state government appears to be flying blind with its Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP).The government's plans at the Cyber Towers Junction, is a classic example of how the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Cor poration (GHMC) sent proposals that became part of SRDP to the state gover nment without completing even basic studies required for such a project.As part of the SRDP, the GHMC sent a proposal for Cyber Tower Junction im provement to the state government in 2014. Following this, the government issued a GO last year including this proposal along with 19 other junction improvements where construction of multi-level flyovers, skyways and grade separators were proposed.While till this stage, everything appeared going well for the government, things started coming unstuck when GHMC issued tenders for taking up the different components of the SRDP.While tenders were called for taking up work at several junctions, the GHMC was forced to leave out the Cyber Tower Junction from tendering process as it did not have crucial details for the junction including traffic analysis details that would provide an idea of vehicular movement in each direction in a given area.Making matters worse, sources said, the GHMC is also awaiting traffic analysis reports from the consultants for the Kukatpally to Mind Space corridor, which falls under Phase I of SRDP .The consultants earlier delayed submission of traffic analysis details of other spots such as Bio-diversity junction, Ayyappa society junction, Mind Space and Rajiv Gandhi junction in Madhapur and surrounding areas, the sources added.Official sources said Road Development Plan (RDP) for the KukatpallyMind Space corridor is yet to be prepared by the town planning wing.The RDPs are prepared by the town planning after the engineering wing gives General Alignment Drawings (GADs) for each stretch of a road. The RDP gives an idea on the exact number and extent of properties need to be acquired for a flyover or junction improvement.At many junctions and corridors, the officials have not prepared individual sketches of properties required to be taken over for the flyovers and junction improvements that are part of the SRDP.The officials said that the junction improvements were proposed based on Comprehensive Transportation Study (CTS) for Hyderabad Metropolitan Region, which was prepared by LEA Associates. Since, the CTS only gives a general idea about traffic, a detailed traffic analysis is required for each of the spots where SRDP calls for construction activity.In all, the civic body has proposed junction improvements at about 50 junctions under SRDP in a phased manner and RDPs are yet to be prepared for many junctions, the sources added.
BHOPAL: BJP MLA Rajendra Dadu got killed in a road accident near Sehore in Madhya Pradesh on Thursday night, ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls. Three others were injured in the accident.Dadu represented Nepanagar constituency in Burhanpur district.He was on his way to Bhopal from Indore when the car he was travelling in overturned near Saikdakhedi in Sehore district.While Dadu succumbed to his injuries on the spot, his gunman, driver and a companion sustained fatal injuries.They were referred to government hospital by local residents.BJP MLA was to attend a poll strategy meet of BJP legislators on Thursday evening. The meeting was cancelled following this incident.
Ahmedabad: The World Yoga Day will be observed in Ahmedabad at the GMDC ground on June 21. The event at Ahmedabad will be coordinated and organized by the Ahmedabad district collectorate. Ahmedabad collector, Avantika Singh Aulakh, said that apart from the main event at GMDC ground, events will be organized at taluka headquarters and at village level. She said the main event at GMDC is likely to be attended by the chief minister Anandiben Patel."We are expecting that the main even would have around 70,000 participants from the city and district," said Aulakh.Apart from GMDC, similar events will be held in the city at AUDA garden in Nikol and at the Sabarmati riverfront. The state government will also give free training to participants before the main event. The training for master trainers will be held for two days from June 11, and from June 13 to June 19, the trainers visit schools, colleges and other areas to train participants.Aulakh said that they would be following the protocol sent by the Union government on the event.Those wanting to take part in the Yoga Day can register online on the website yogaahmedabad.co.in. tnn
Panaji: A 22-hour rescue operation on high seas came to an end on Thursday evening following a joint effort by the   Indian Navy and Indian   Coast Guard who escorted the damaged merchant vessel   MV Infinity I to the safety of   Karwar port. The merchant vessel developed a crack in the forward section of its hull and began to list towards starboard prompting authorities to initiate rescue operations and avert a catastrophy. "In a highly dangerous situation where cracks develop on the hull, water can quickly pour in and the ship can reach a critical angle. To stabilize the ship, there was counter flooding and she was able to make her own way to anchorage," a Navy official said. Trouble began on Wednesday afternoon when MV Infinity I was off the coast of Mumbai and began to notice water seeping in through a breach in the hull. Initially, the vessel used its own water pumps, but once those failed to work, the vessel sent out a distress signal through VHF to INS Trikand which was in the vicinity. Roughly 20 nautical miles off the Goan coast, the vessel began to list to starboard (right side). Even as INS Trikand from the western naval command responded to the distress call, the maritime rescue coordination centre was informed and coastguard ships Amal and Shoor and a tug from Goa were dispatched. "Since it is rough weather and there are high swells because of the monsoons which makes rescue by boat dangerous.   INS Hansa had kept three helicopters on standby," a naval official from Goa said. Naval ship INS Kondul was also placed on standby. An initial rescue team of four personnel deployed high speed de-watering pumps and counter-flooding measures on the stricken ship. By early morning on Thursday, MV Infinity I was able to contain the flooding and, still listing precariously, began to proceed towards Karwar harbour. The 83 metre-long vessel with 14 Indian crew was enroute to Karwar, Karnataka, from Kandla port in Gujarat carrying approximately 1,750 tonnes of bitumen. "The task of ensuring the seaworthiness of a vessel belongs to the primary country of registration, in this case Panama. Though the ship was operating in Indian waters, the duty to inspect and certify it remains with officials in Panama," a naval officer said.
Indore: The probe on deaths of two toddlers at state-run MY Hospital due to the inhaling of anesthetic nitrous oxide instead of oxygen is getting complicated as the five-member committee constituted for the job has not reached to any conclusion yet. Sources said that principal secretary of medical education department is expected to be in the city on Friday to probe the deaths.The committee constituted by dean of Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College (MGMMC) is still taking statements of the on-duty staff on the day of incident after the committee was ordered to re-probe the matter.Director, medical education department, Dr G S Patel said, "I am yet to receive probe report from the panel." State government had given a deadline of June 6 but the committee failed to meet the deadline.The five-member committee was constituted by principal secretary, department of medical education, Prabhanshu Kamal on the directions of state government.
Chandigarh, Jun 10 () A 51-year-old Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer allegedly committed suicide by jumping from the sixth floor of a hotel building in Panchkula, police said today.  Ajay Kadian, Chief Conservator of Forests of Haryana, was seen near the swimming pool on the sixth floor of the hotel.  Preliminary investigation points towards a suicide and police have initiated inquest proceedings in the matter.  The exact cause behind the incident is not known, but the officer was depressed, police said.  The senior Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer jumped to death from the sixth floor of the hotel building, police said.  "It appears to be a suicide case. We are probing the matter," said Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Mukesh Malhotra.  The incident occurred last evening when the 1987-batch IFS officer reportedly jumped from the hotel and suffered severe injuries on his head, police said, adding that he was first seen lying on the floor by guards and a manager of the hotel.  Police said they were checking the CCTV footage of the hotel to see how he reached the top floor or whether he had come for swimming.  No suicide note has been found from the spot, he said.  The deceased's wife, Anita Kadian, is posted in the state Forensic Science Laboratory in Madhuban, Karnal.  His daughter is doing law while his son has completed engineering. Kadian, who was posted in the Forest Department, Panchkula, was putting up at Sector 6 at Panchkula with his family. VJ AMS RG AMS
Silchar: North Cachar Hills Autonomous Council (NCHAC) was on Thursday pushed to a crisis again with chief executive member (CEM) Debojit Thaosen resigning an hour before the special session of the council began, assuming defeat in the no-confidence motion tabled against him by BJP.Assam governor PB Acharya, the constitutional head of the council, had convened the special session of NCHAC during the day for voting on the no-confidence motion tabled by BJP members against CEM Thaosen. However, assuming confirmed defeat, Thaosen submitted his resignation on Thursday morning to ST Jem Rangkhal, the acting chairman of NCHAC. In the wake of fresh developments, voting on the no-confidence motion was cancelled.
Guwahati: The Students' Federation of India (SFI) on Thursday urged the state government to increase the number of seats at the senior-secondary (Class XI) and undergraduate levels."Around 2.4 lakh students passed the Class X state boards this year. In Class XI, there are around two lakh seats. Similarly, around 1.97 lakh students passed the Class XII state boards this year, but there are only 1.2 undergraduate seats in Assam's colleges. So, around 1.17 lakh students will miss out on seats if the state government does not increase the number of seats at the senior-secondary and undergraduate levels," said SFI's state unit president Kashyap Choudhury and secretary Nirangkush Nath.The students' body also urged the state government to make the fee structure of courses uniform. "Different colleges of the state have hiked their fees from Rs 500 to Rs 1,200. We want the government to make the fee structure uniform across government-aided colleges," Nath said.SFI also demanded a centralized admission process for colleges under different universities. In Assam, colleges usually have control over the admission process, forcing students to submit separate forms for different colleges.
Bhubaneswar: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast that Odisha will receive above normal rainfall has prompted the state government to gear up for a flood-like situation. The state's coastal and southern districts are prone to flood. According to the weathermen, monsoon would hit Odisha in June second week. "Odisha would receive 113% rain this year," said special relief commissioner P K Mohaptra. Rainfall within 96% and 104% is considered normal rainfall. Sources said mock drill for flood preparation will be conducetd in all 30 districts on June 19. All blocks and members associated with flood and cyclone relief centres would participate in it.The chief secretary, A P Padhi, has directed the SRC office to procure necessary equipment for 10 newly-constituted teams of Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF). Around 500 police personnel from the 10 ODRAF teams is going on in full swing, said Mohapatra.The state government also decided to hike daily wages of ODRAF personnel from Rs 200 to Rs 300 for deployment within the state and from Rs 400 to Rs 500 for deployment outside the state. To meet emergency situation during flood and cyclone, it was also discussed in the meeting to provide tower light to all police stations in coastal districts. The disaster management plan prepared by different districts has been approved and would be uploaded on the official website of Odisha State Disaster Management Authority.
Guwahati: With a horrible infant mortality rate (IMR), maternal mortality ratio (MMR) and having missed out on reaching the IMR target of 25 per 1000 live births, set by the millennium development goals (MDG) in 2015, Assam on Thursday saw the launch of Pradhan Mantri Surakshit Matritva Abhiyan (PMSMA) across all districts in the state, along with the rest of the nation, to curb IMR, MMR and under five mortality rate (U5MR).The latest National Family Health Survey 4 (NFHS) report states Assam has an IMR of 48 and a U5MR of 56.Under the recent PMSMA scheme, pregnant women need to go for health checkups. High-risk pregnant women need to be identified, and counselling has be provided on nutrition, family planning and overall birth readiness for newborns and postnatal care.As per the new NFHS 4 report, Assam recorded 70.6% Institutional Delivery (ID) in 2015-16, which was 74.2% in 2013-14 as per data provided by Rapid Survey on Children. The national average was 78.7%.
Jaipur: Mercury took a dip across the state on Thursday, a day after mild showers were witnessed at many parts in the state. However, Churu remained hottest in the state where a maximum temperature of 46.5 degrees Celsius was recorded, the Met reports said. Attributing the mild showers and dust storms which continued on Thursday to the active upper air cyclonic circulation and western disturbances, Jaipur Met office said that similar conditions would prevail in the state in the next couple of days.Jaipurites woke up to a comparatively pleasant morning as a maximum temperature of 29.8 degrees Celsius was recorded. It was followed by a sultry afternoon when a maximum temperature of 44.3 degrees Celsius accompanied with a humidity of 35% was recorded. In the evening, cloudy conditions prevailed in and around the city which invited cold breeze and gave some respite from the heat conditions. Churu was followed by Sriganganagar where a maximum temperature of 46.2 degrees Celsius was recorded.
 PANAJI: While calling upon the state government to intervene in the impasse between   Dhempe college students and   Goa university regarding   poor attendance which led to the debarring of those students the student wing of the Congress party, National students' union of India (NSUI) took a dig at   Goa Forward for 'using' media to highlight the issue.  Goa Forward, a recently launched regional political outfit, had taken up the case and even met governor Mridula Sinha along with parents of the concerned students. "We have been solving such problems in other colleges but we never go to the press. Going to the press creates more problems," said NSUI president Ahraz Mulla, stopping short of blaming the media for taking the issue out of proportion. "The university's academic council should find a solution and provide some relaxation," he added.   First and second year arts and science students of Dhempe College were debarred from answering their semester exams in October during academic year 2015-16, after they were found to be lacking the required 75% attendance. After convincing the management, they were later allowed to answer supplementary examinations. Subsequently, these supplementary exams were considered null and void, prompting the students to protest since May 7.   Mullah along with the Mapusa block president Vijay Bhike suggested the university should relax the norms for not only Dhempe College students, but for students across Goa who fell short of the 75% attendance criteria. NSUI said because of such incidents, students tend to avoid co-curricular activities. "Students are getting scared of showing their talent. Co-curricular activities should be counted for attendance," said Mulla.
Jaipur: The challenges that the present generation faces are more psychological than anything else. More than money and material needs, they are in the process of finding themselves. This is what makes psychology a very popular subject. It addresses so many pertinent issues that are primary for them to understand and negotiate. Psychology aims at understanding how people think, feel and act in different situations.A bachelor's degree in psychology helps individuals understand the basic psychological processes, psychopathology, social psychology, psychological assessment, human development etc. Apart from this, there are numerous practical subjects which the aspiring psychologist needs to perform. The course is so well-structured that it helps to have more detailed insight into the subject.Dr Prerna Puri, associate professor at the University of Rajasthan, said, "Psychology is the scientific study of human and animal behaviour. We deal with different people every day; psychology helps us to understand their emotions and feelings. The application of this subject is vast. "Psychological knowledge can be used in most situations where people act and interact. The study of psychology falls within the field of life sciences and medicine.Psychology in its broadest terms is the study of the human mind and behaviour, offering the chance to explore questions about the brain, such as how it functions under stress, how it learns language, how it remembers facts or how mental illness can affect the way it works.
Sambalpur: The couple, who had alleged that their baby girl had been swapped for a dead infant at VIMSAR in Burla on May 21, on Thursday got back their child after the DNA report confirmed that they were the biological parents.The Child Welfare Committee (CWC), Sambalpur, on Thursday officially handed over the baby girl to Reena Patra and Gagan Bihari Patra of Podakhol. The baby was kept at Rukmini Lath Bal Niketan after she was handed over to Childline, Sambalpur, by the VIMSAR authorities. She had been there since June 4. However, the newborn was admitted to the SNCU in the district headquarter hospital in Sambalpur on Wednesday after she did not take food. "The parents will take the baby home after she recovers," said member of CWC (Sambalpur) Surya Panigrahi.According to reports, Gagan's wife Reena Patra gave birth to a baby girl at Naktideul hospital on May 17. She was referred to VIMSAR the newborn did not cry after birth. The baby was admitted to the SNCU of VIMSAR on May 21 and allotted bed no. 16. Another couple, Sudam Bhoi and his wife Sanjukta Bhoi of Bhaunripathar village in Boudh district, had got their baby girl admitted to the SNCU and allotted bed no. 17.On May 21 evening, the SNCU staffers told Gagan that his daughter has died. However, Gagan alleged that his baby girl was alive and had been swapped with the baby, who was on bed no.17. He filed a complaint at Burla police and demanded a DNA test"The DNA test confirmed that Gagan Bihari Patra and Reena were the biological parents of the baby. We received the report on Wednesday. Subsequently, we moved the SDM, who directed for handing over of the baby to the biological parents," said SDPO (Burla) Abakash Routray. The DNA report will soon be sent to the superintendent of VIMSAR , he said."I am happy to have got back my daughter after 18 days. The separation was really very painful," said Reena.Superintendent of VIMSAR Braja Mohan Mishra said he had not received any official letter regarding the DNA report. "I came to know about the DNA report from other source. A committee will be formed to probe into the baby swapping after we receive an official letter," he said.
Kanpur: The reccurence of dust and thunderstorms in the city has wrecked havoc. Five duststorms in a span of last 15 days has caused much damage to the green belt in the city. Several huge and old Neem, Chilbil and other trees have either got uprooted or tilted completely. Countless tree branches have also broken. Be it Kanpur zoo, CSA University, HBTI campus, VIP Road, Tilak Nagar, or road between Rawatpur and Company Bagh crossing, Motijheel, Phoolbagh and Nanarao Park, to name a few, are the places which have dense greenery which has been damaged by the mighty storms. This has saddened the environmentalists and the nature lovers in the city who say that the loss is irreparable. More than 200 big trees have got uprooted all across the city in these storms. The worst affected is the Rawatpur-Company Bagh crossing where as many as four Euclyptus trees had come down on the ground. These trees were so huge that every time a tree fell, would completely block the road. The huge trees had to be cut into small pieces and then removed from the site to make way for the vehicles. During Tuesday afternoon's storm also, a large tree fell and had blocked the road.Many trees had also fallen inside Kanpur zoo campus. After May 23 storm, a huge Neem tree fell on the gate of the Lake View building which had completely blocked the way. It took a couple of days to remove the tree. Several other trees or their branches had fallen on the road inside the zoo which had to be removed to allow the visitors to take a casual walk.Trees had also got uprooted inside the HBTI campus. A tree after getting uprooted fell over the tin shed and is still hanging in the air. Many trees had ripped apart and their branches fell here and there.Two heavy trees had fallen on parallel roads--between Company Bagh crossing and Tilak Nagar and Company Bagh crossing and Swaroop Nagar. Both the trees obstructed the way. Large wood cutters had to be used to cut the tree into small pieces. CSA University campus which is the most preferred place for walking and jogging during early morning and evening hours was also affected by the storm. The joggers had a tough time as the broken branches caused a blockade.In South City also, several trees had fallen on the live wires which besides devastating the greenery also caused loss to the property of Kanpur electricity supply company. A nature lover Prof SP Singh of Christ Church College said that the kind of damage caused to the green cover in the city is irreparable as less number of saplings are planted than the number of trees that fall every year. "What to talk about the storms in which a number of trees have gone down", he said.Capt Arun Shukla, an environmentalist too stated that the loss to the trees cannot be compensated. The need of the hour is to plant more saplings, he advised.Kesco has also suffered huge losses as over 200 electricity poles have got uprooted in the storms. Power cables and wires, conductors and jumpers have also got damaged in large numbers. RD Pandey, spokesperson for Kesco stated that after the May 23 storm, 170 electricity poles had got uprooted which were replaced with the new ones. He said that later storms had also caused damage in the same way. "The damage caused to the poles and the wires is being calculated", he said.
DEHRADUN: Disabled persons in Uttarakhand have demanded national and state commissions for persons with disabilities, in order to protect their rights. The demand, they said, has arisen in the wake of escalating cases of heinous crimes against disabled children in the country and discrimination against the disabled, particularly the hearing and speech impaired.  Speaking on behalf of the 2.68 crore disabled citizens of India, those in Uttarakhand have claimed that the Centre's categorization of all physical problems under 'disability' was incorrect. "Each disability has a different kind of pain that comes with it, and different needs. Hearings in court cases for disabled people do not ensure that the rights of the disabled are safeguarded. Our rights are as vital as that of women, children and minorities. The very fact that 3% employment reservation for the disabled is not being filled by the government speaks a lot about the deprivation we face," said Sandeep Arora, who is hearing impaired and is the secretary of National Handicapped Rights and Duties Manch.  Unconvinced with establishment of disabled councils in different states and sticking to their demand for a full-fledged commission, Manch members said, "We are not satisfied with the formation of a council as it subsides disabled people because its chief is a bureaucrat who is not necessarily a handicapped person or someone who can relate to us. We want a commission for each state."
Hubballi: K Nandini Singla created a record of sorts when she became the country's youngest woman ambassador. And did her hometown Keshwapur in Hubballi district proud. Nandini, who has been working with the ministry of external affairs for the past 19 years, was appointed India's ambassador to Portugal. "I want to strengthen bilateral ties between India and Portugal and help build strong trade links. I also want to promote our art and culture," said Nandini, who will assume her responsibilities soon.  Nandini said, "Since my father worked with the Life Insurance Corporation and was constantly transferred, I did my schooling in several places like Kalburgi, Bagalkot and Hubballi. When I scored 88% in the SSLC exam, the college authorities wanted me to join the science stream. But I was determined to pursue arts despite many warnings about the lack of opportunities. I joined NCC in PUC and represented Karnataka at the Republic Day Parade in 1990." After securing the top rank in the state in arts in 1990, she joined the BA course at Kadasiddeshwar Arts College, Hubballi. During her undergraduate years, she visited Canada as part of a Youth Exchange Programme, which convinced her to take up a career in the foreign service. "After graduation, I studied MA in international studies and political science, after which I enrolled in Jawaharlal Nehru University's MPhil programme in diplomatic studies. In 1997, I secured the 47th rank in my first shot at the IAS entrance exam. As I'd opted for the India Foreign Service, I got in easily," she added.Nandini has served with Indian embassies in France and Switzerland, apart from working with the MEA on Western Europe. She's excited about her appointment as ambassador to Portugal. Nandini said, "It is a great challenge to work in Portugal."Dispelling the long-standing myth that the arts stream does not offer as many opportunities as engineering or medicine, Nandini said, "Though North Karnataka lacked many facilities during my student days, I worked hard to attain my goal despite being an arts student.""I owe my success to my parents, K Premlata and K Gururaj Rao, and my husband, Sanjeev Singla who is also an IFS officer," she added. Gururaj Rao, elated by her accomplishments, said, "Nandini has proved that when one has the will, one can achieve anything in life."
Chandigarh: The four-day curtain raiser of the Chandigarh administration ahead of the 2nd International day of Yoga scheduled for June 21, 2016 was inaugurated at Parade Ground, Sector 17, Chandigarh on Thursday. The event began with spiritual guru Sri Sri Ravi Shankar talking about "Yoga-The True Dimension". Professor Kaptan Singh Solanki, Governor, Punjab, Haryana and Administrator, UT, Chandigarh was the chief Guest during the occasion. Addressing the gathering Sri Sri advocated the practice of yoga for a stress free life. He said it is possible to attain physical and spiritual health as well as a greater connection with the universe through yoga. Regular yoga, he said can help youngsters shun gun culture and violence. Solanki said Chandigarh administration has done an appreciable job by making all out efforts to ensure public participation in the second International Day of Yoga scheduled for June 21 in Chandigarh.
Jaipur: Even as Jaipurites eagerly await the monsoon, which is expected to arrive in a fortnight, Jaipur Municipal Corporation remains ill-prepared. It has not yet started cleaning drains choked with filth at most areas in the city despite perennial problem of water logging during monsoon. Out of 984 drains in the city, JMC has not been able to clean even 20% of it. The civic body failed to get their act together even when there were reports about the time and possibility of normal rainfall this year. Officials claim that process got delayed because they were not able to issue the tenders. Along with it, JMC said they still lack manpower and necessary equipment to carry out the exercise on a large scale. "Not able to issue tenders has been a major stumbling block for us. Yet somehow tenders were issued and unfortunately out of 80 bidders only 35 have applied for the de-silting of drains," said a senior official of JMC. "The deadline we set for ourselves is June 30 while repairing work is expected to be finished by July 10. We are hopeful that work will be finishing on time and as 70 drains have been cleaned on Thursday," added the official.Due to financial crunch, JMC was already taking up de-silting work of fewer drains this time. There are a total of 984 drains in the city. "Tenders were invited only to de-silt the major drains. First we have chosen 50-60 major drains and rest will be done later," the official further said. However the places where work has been started, the filth is still lying out in open. Firms that were given the task to collect it have been lethargic in performance. Officials claim that garbage has been left to dry and would later be collected later.
Imphal, June 10 (IANS) Several tribal groups began a 10-day economic blockade of Manipur from Thursday midnight. This caused fuel shortage and a spike in prices of several consumables, affecting normal life across the state.      Hundreds of vehicles, including passenger buses and private cars, were left stranded at various places in and around the state.      Police were escorting the stranded vehicles to ensure the safety of passengers, a senior police officer said.      "Arrangements have been made to escort fuel and liquefied petroleum gas tankers from Nagaland and Assam to Imphal. Police is also escorting stranded buses and trucks along the national highways," the officer told IANS.      In order to check hoarding and avoid hardships to the common man, the Manipur government has directed stockists, dealers and retailers of essential commodities to publicly display on boards their stocks and prices of each commodity.      Highly placed sources told IANS that the measure is also intended to check deliberate hike in prices of consumer items by unscrupulous traders.      Officials said there was no need for panic buying of fuel since there were enough stocks. However, the prices of several consumables have risen despite government assurances, with potatoes and onions costing Rs 35 a kg.      The officials also said stocks of petrol, diesel, kerosene and LPG in the state could last from 20 to 27 days. But most of the petrol pumps have shut down, claiming to have 'nil' stocks. Interestingly, there is no fuel shortage as far as roadside illegal vendors are concerned.      Earlier, a 24-hour strike called by tribal activists in Manipur to protest alleged police "excesses" on slogan-shouting supporters in Delhi ended on Thursday midnight, which was followed by the start of the 10-day economic blockade.      Besides, the Kangleipak Students Association too has called for a general strike in Manipur from 5 p.m. on Saturday till Monday evening.      --IANS      il/tsb/vt
Bhubaneswar: Ruling BJD MP Tathagata Satpathy feels excessive use of red beacons in the Naveen Patnaik regime had probably upset the average Odia. Many ruling and opposition leaders believe that the rising 'lal batti' culture is seen as a display of arrogance by government officials.In an editorial in a newspaper edited by him on June 5, Satpathy blamed red beacons, misuse of government machinery and low-level corruption for his party's defeat in two urban body bypolls. The Naveen government had issued a notification towards the end of its last term in March 2014 trimming the list of VIPs using red beacons as per Supreme Court guidelines. Their number, however, is rising fast in the current term.Since January this year, the number of political appointees having red beacons has doubled. Earlier, among the political appointees, the chief minister, his 21 ministers, speaker, deputy speaker, leader of opposition, chief whip, deputy chief whip and deputy chairman of State Planning Commission were using red beacons. The government appointed around 20 MLAs as DPC chiefs providing them red beacon vehicles. This apart, the government appointed Sam Pitroda as technology adviser and Subrato Bagchi as chairman of Skill Development Authority with cabinet rank, entitling them with red beacons. "The red beacon users may go up as the government plans to appoint more MLAs to the DPCs and a Sports Authority chairman in the coming days. This should be avoided," said a senior BJD leader.In December last year, the state government passed the Odisha district planning committees (DPCs) (amendment) Bill, 2015, making MLAs eligible to head the DPCs. Earlier, only ministers were heading the these panels. The move helped MLAs get red beacon vehicles since the DPC chiefs, equivalent to the status of minster of state, are entitled the lal batti vehicles.BJD spokesperson Amar Prasad Satpathy, however, said there is no excessive use of red beacons. "I feel there must not be misuse of red beacon vehicles. But, there is nothing wrong when people holding positions entitled for red beacons use it. I don't think people have any problem with it." "There is no abuse under the Naveen government," he added.Leader of opposition Narasingha Mishra said the Supreme Court's December 2013 direction on who can use red beacons should be re-examined. "Though a minister can use the red light, whether someone given equivalent rank can use red beacon should be examined," he said. Stating that there should be crackdown on unauthorised use, Narasingha said the Western Odisha Development Council chairman was using red beacons till the matter was raised in the assembly. In December 2013, the Supreme Court asked the state governments to issue notifications on dignitaries who can use the use red light such as governor, Lt governor, chief minister, Chief Justices and Judges of High Courts, Chairman, Speaker, and cabinet ministers etc. In March 2014, the state commerce and transport department issued a notification that 10 categories of VIPs can use the red lights: Governor, chief minister, chief justice Orissa high court, HC judges, speaker, cabinet ministers, leader of opposition, deputy speaker, ministers of state and deputy ministers. New additions: MLAs who became district planning committee chairpersons, political appointees with cabinet minister ranks are now using the red lights.
Jaipur: The layout plan of Palacia, the luxury multistorey apartment situated near Statue Circle on Prithviraj Road which is under construction, has been cancelled by the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA).It was after the BJP government came to power in the state that the urban development and housing (UDH) department revoked the permission given during Congress regime to construct the building up to 30 metres in height. The developer then limited the height of the building to 15 metres. After this, JDA gave directions to the developer to submit revised maps of the construction.The developer failed to submit the revised plan, after which notices were issued and JDA's enforcement wing stopped construction work. A warning was issued by JDA regarding the revised layout plan.The developer failed to submit the revised plan, after which notices were issued and JDA's enforcement wing stopped construction work.A warning was issued by JDA regarding the revised layout plan, saying "otherwise the project will be considered as illegal".Following this, the developer approached a tribunal court against JDA. An official said the court left the matter to JDA."During the last building planning committee (BPC) meeting, JDA had asked the developer to submit a revised plan. The developer did not submit the revised layout plan and so the layout plan has been cancelled," said an official source.
Guwahati: At least four persons were reportedly killed in mob attacks and several sustained injuries over the last week in lower Assam districts after they were accused of being 'child lifters' or 'witch souls'. In the wake of such incidents, Assam Police has issued an alert to contain the spread of such incendiary rumours.Villages in the districts of Chirang, Baksa, Barpeta, Sonitpur and Darrang wore a tense look in the past few days. Villagers spent sleepless nights, patrolling the villages with lathis, hockey sticks and sharp weapons. All because of a rumour about 'child lifters' and 'witches' entering their villages.One person was attacked by a mob at the Panbari area in Chirang district last week. He succumbed to his injuries. In Baksa district, a man was lynched to death in the Kerpabhita area near Goreswar. In both cases, the victims were accused of being 'child lifters'. At least seven others were beaten mercilessly in Baksa, Darrang and Sonitpur districts over the last few days.Sources said most victims are either mentally challenged or people with whom personal scores were being settled. The rumours are never challenged because superstition prevails in most of these places.For instance, a man identified as Madhab Baruah was attacked by villagers at Biswanath Chariali in Sonitpur district a few days ago for being a 'witch soul'. "Locals alleged that if he wasn't killed, he would become immortal," police sources said.As these incidents continue to take hold of the imagination of the people, the need to address the circulation of such rumours became imminent.Sources said the state police headquarters here have issued an alert to all superintendents of police to contain the rumours and stop the public from indulging in unlawful activities. "District police forces have been instructed to organize awareness campaigns among the public and ensure rumours don't spark violence," sources said.Two people have already been arrested for their involvement in the Panbari attack. "The situation has been contained. We have instructed district police forces to conduct meetings and awareness camps in far-flung areas of the district. We are focusing on informing the locals that the presence of child lifters or witches in the district is not corroborated by statistical reality. No child has been kidnapped nor was anyone attacked. These are only rumours. We have also warned them that deterrent action will be taken on those involved," said SB Rai Medhi, SP, Chirang. In Baksa district, too, police are taking no chances. "We have instructed night patrolling teams to ensure the safety of the homeless people who spend nights in the open too," Mojibur Rahman, SP, Baksa, said.
Cuttack: There is good news in store for cricket lovers in the state as Barabati Stadium is set to host India-England ODI match in January next year. The announcement made by Bon Thursday put an end to the uncertainty over Barabati hosting international matches after the infamous bottle-hurling incident last year.  "The image of Barabati and our state cricket body was tarnished owing to the mindless act of some mischief mongers. People of Odisha were labelled as "rowdy spectators" and many veteran cricketers had supported the ODI ban on Barabati. But I am happy that BCCI has proved them wrong by alloting ODI to the stadium," said Ashutosh Das, a cricket enthusiast.The news has also brought a sigh of relief to the Odisha Cricket Association(OCA), which had faced flak after spectators hurled bottles into the cricket ground during the India-South Africa T20 match on October 5 last year bringing the match to a halt for some time. Following the incident, veteran cricketers like Sunil Gavaskar, had recommended banning Barabati stadium from hosting international matches. "Barabati will host the second match of the ODI series between India and England. It is great news for us and every step will be taken to ensure that the match is played smoothly here," said OCA secretary Asirbad Behera. "The reputation of OCA and Barabati was at stake after the untoward incident. The BCCI's announcement has thrilled us to bits," said a senior official of OCA.Behera added that water bottles and water pouches will be strictly banned in the stadium this time. This apart, seats in the galleries will be numbered properly to avoid overcrowding. Water tanks will be installed in each gallery and the height of nets will be raised substantially to avoid a rerun of the incident. "A foolproof arrangement will be put in place to ensure that the match is conducted in a hassle-free manner," said Behera. However, the state cricket body had its share of dissappointment as Barabati was not included in the list of six new Test venues declared by BCCI on Thursday. The issue assumes significance amid OCA's recent claim that BCCI officials were happy with Barabati's infrastructure and will soon accord Test venue status to it. "There is nothing to worry as I am hopeful that Barabati will be selected as a Test venue in the annual general body meeting of BCCI to be held in September this year," said Behera.
Jaipur: Rajasthan High Court on Thursday directed the additional director general (ADG) of police (Crime) to change the investigating officer (IO) on a petition seeking fair investigation in a chit fund fraud case. The single bench of Justice B L Sharma issued the order on a petition by Dr Dharampal Singh. Counsel for the petitioner Anurag Shukla said the ACP Anil Singh Chauhan (Sodala) who was investigating the case informed the court on April 21 this year that the main accused Ranjit Kumar Rai was arrested and chargesheet has been filed against 21 accused in the case. The court directed ADG (Crime) to change the officer and submit its report within three months.
PANAJI: Goa police on Friday filed a chargesheet against sports minister Ramesh Tawadkar and seven other for alleged rioting and freeing two accused arrested by forest department at Cotigao Wildlife Sanctuary in 2009.        The Canacona police station has filed the chargesheet before judicial magistrate first class (JMFC), Canacona under section 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), 451 (House-trespass), 353 (assault) and other various sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC). The case has been investigated by Canacona police inspector Filomeno Costa.        Speaking to TOI, Costa said that the FIR was registered on April 27, 2009 against Tawadkar and others for forming a mob and barging into the office of the Range Forest Officer at Cotigao Wildlife Sanctuary in Canacona and forcibly taking away two accused who were in the custody of the Range Forest Officer.
 Kanpur: A complaint was filed in the court of the chief metropolitan magistrate's court against railway minister Suresh Prabhu minister on Thursday, alleging that he had violated the provisions of Section 146/154/156 Rail Act 1989.  In a complaint filed under section 190 (1) CrPC, the petitioner claimed that on June 7, 2016 he had read a news published in a Hindi newspaper in which it was stated that the railway minister had got down from running train at Meerut railway station in a bid to evade BJP workers who had assembled there to welcome him.  The act of railway minister was illegal and against the provisions of Section 146/154/156 Rail Act. If a cabinet minister would break the law in such manner, then it would encourage others to break the law and in that way anarchy would prevail in the society. The petitioner urged the court to summon the accused and punish him accordingly. The court had fixed June 27 as the date for hearing.
Indore: Unidentified persons attacked a youth with sharp-edged weapons and killed him on the spot in Dhar town late on Wednesday night. The victim, Himanshu Sharma, 21, was son of Patti BalajI Hanuman temple priest and was speaking on mobile phone near his house late on Wednesday night when police believe that the attack took place.The family slept through the night unaware of the killing. The body was found in the morning when a worker at neighbouring tiles factory moved in the locality. He immediately called the others and the police were informed about the it. Sagor police said that the body was sent for a post-mortem examination. Sharma had sustained injuries on his head and neck. The nature of injuries suggests that a sharp-edged weapon was used by the attackers, police said while talking to the media.
Bhopal: Varsha Bharti from Thuna village and Pooja Malviya from Padli village left their studies at very young age, as they had to travel about 10 km for attending school. Similarly, Pinki Shakya, now in her 20s, dropped out of school due to early marriage. However, they all have passed their class 10 exam from the National Institute of Open Schooling, thanks to Pratham Open School initiative by NGO Pratham. In fact 340 such female candidates, aged between 16 and 25, from Bhopal, Indore and Jabalpur stepped out of their homes to resume their studies. Their results were declared on Thursday. Out of them, 58 students passed their exam with first division, 266 with second division and 15 with third division. Jabalpur had the highest number of dropout students appearing for the board. They were brought back to schooling by Pratham NGO's initiative that was started to give dropout students, especially girls, the second chance to complete their secondary school education and acquire the skills necessary for employment. The 12-month programme begins with a three-month foundation course followed by a 10-day non-residential training session at a hub centre during each of the remaining 9 months. Upon completion of the foundation course, a final selection of students is made based on their performance and keenness to continue with the course.  Those students are then trained in all subjects of the secondary school examination for 9 months through the hub centre. "In 2012-13 and 2013-14, we opted to go with Madhya Pradesh Board of Examination. In 2014-15 and 2015-16 we decided to go with NIOS Board (National Institute for Open Schooling)," said Sajjan Singh Shekhawat, state coordinator, Pratham.
Gurgaon: A blame game has begun between the discom, the RWA and the developer over maintenance of power infrastructure in Sushant Lok. This, even as while residents of the township continue to suffer from long outages for the last couple of weeks. Residents said there have been two long power cuts in the last four days. On Thursday, power supply was cut at 7.30am and returned only after 2.30pm, making residents sweat in the humid weather. Earlier on Monday, the outage began at 8am and stretched till late in the evening. "This is the second time this week that we faced such a long power cut. These cuts have become routine," said Lata Kapoor, a resident of Sushant Lok 1.RWA members said Thursday's outage was caused by ongoing maintenance work, whereas Monday's power cut was due to problem in the supply line. "Monday's power cut was due to an issue on the supply side at DHBVN's end," said Dr AK Nagpal, RWA president of Sushant Lok.DHBVN officials, though, claimed there were no supply issues. Instead, they blamed lack of maintenance of power infrastructure in the township, which is under the RWA's charge, for the outages. The discom had called a meeting with the RWA and the developer on Wednesday and said it will restore power for now, so that residents don't have to suffer."Maintenance of power infrastructure comes under the RWA. They have outsourced the work to a private contractor, which has not carried out required maintenance work. This is what is causing the power cuts," said executive engineer Manoj Yadav.The RWA, in response, said there is a tripartite agreement between it, DHBVN and the developer Ansal, and that it has outsourced the maintenance contract based on terms of this contract. "The maintenance either rests with the developer or the discom, as we are paying them for the supply," said Nagpal. He added that in the blame game between the discom and the developer, residents are having to face the brunt of the problem, as DHBVN says it's the duty of the developer to build infrastructure, who have washed their hands off saying they have done enough already. The developer, according to Nagpal, was supposed to have built a power station in the area, but is yet to do so.An Ansal spokesperson said the developer has fulfilled its responsibilities. "We've done the needful. This includes paying required dues and supplying space for developing infrastructure. The responsibility of supply and maintenance of power rests solely with DHBVN," he said.
Belagavi: The implementation of the World Bank assisted 24x7 water supply project in the city is likely to be delayed further as the Malaysian company which had bagged the tender has backed out protesting the delay in issuing the work order to it. This leaves Karnataka Urban Infrastructure Development and Finance Corporation (KUIDFC), the nodal agency for the project, with no option but to initiate the tender process all over again.The Rs 680 crore project is being implemented in the city with the financial aid of Rs 480 crore from the World Bank. The project, envisaged under private public partnership model. will have 10 percent cost contribution from the Belagavi City Corporation (BCC).The KUIDFC had floated the tenders six months back and selected Malaysian company for executing the work. However, the company decided to back out as it did not get the work order even three months after bagging the tender. The reason for the delay is not known.As the 24x7 water supply project has been merged with other projects being taken up under the Smart City programme like streamlining of underground drainage system, widening and upgradation of city roads and laying of water supply pipelines are also likely to get delayed due to the development.However, BCC commissioner G Prabhu said the decision of the Malaysian company to back out of the project would not delay other projects. 'We have already started the process of calling fresh tenders. Soon it will be completed and new agency will be selected for executing the work,'' he added.
Erode: A 25-year-old female elephant was found dead in Bhavanisagar forest range in Erode district on Wednesday evening. According to forest department officials, the elephant died of severe ailment. Forest officials in Bhavanisagar forest range got a tip-off that a female elephant was lying dead in Vilamundi area in Bhavanisagar forest range. Based on the information, the forest officials led by forester K Rajkumar, district forest officer (DFO) of Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR), veterinary doctor K Muruganandham and others rushed to the spot.The veterinary surgeon performed autopsy on the dead jumbo and confirmed that the elephant died of severe ailment. "The elephant could not walk properly and couldn't even eat which ultimately led to her death," the doctors said.The doctors collected vital organs such as lungs, spleen, liver and kidney for chemical analysis. Later the officials buried the carcass in the forest.
Gurgaon: A 25-year-old Master of Arts student ran away with her examination answer sheet, police said on Thursday.Ravita, a distance education student at the Government Girls College at Sector 14 here, managed to escape along with the first year (Hindi) answer sheet.Police officer Mahesh Kumar told IANS they were looking for the woman.Her husband, who works with a private firm, has assured the police that she would surrender soon, the officer said.Ravita has been booked under the Indian Penal Code for breach of trust.
Tiruvannamalai: Widening and beautification work of the Girivalam path around the Annamalai hills in Tiruvannamalai is gaining momentum. The project, taken up under the Comprehensive Road Infrastructure Development Project, was allocated 65 crore by the state government. The project was aimed to facilitate the devotees thronging the temple town to perform Girivalam during full moon days. During Chithra Pournami and Karthigai Maha Deepam festival, over 10 lakh devotees converge to offer prayers and perform Girivalam. Officials in the district administration said that the government had sanctioned 25 crore in the first phase. Works such as laying the road, constructing median and lighting facility on the 2.8km stretch from the old Government Hospital to Chengam Junction are under progress. "The road will be widened from the existing 10 to 11 metres to 15 metres," said an official attached to the state highways department. Collector A Gnanasekaran, who chaired a review meeting recently, instructed the revenue departments to mark the boundaries along the stretch to commence eviction of the encroachments. He has also instructed the officials of Tangedco to shift the electric poles and transformers in the Girivalam path to enable the Highways Department to expedite the process.
BHUBANESWAR: Odisha State Open University (OSOU), Sambalpur on Friday launched an internet radio Pragynavani for imparting internet-based teaching to its students. "Students can log into www.pragynavani.com and listen to lessons of their subjects," OSOU vice-chancellor (VC) Srikant Mohapatra said here on Friday.The university, established on June 10, 2015, celebrated its first foundation day on Friday. Mohapatra said audio teaching material of journalism and mass communication course of the university has been uploaded in the site. The varsity will gradually add audios of all its courses, he said.The VC said the university will introduce new diploma courses on entrepreneurship development, disaster management, accounting, nursing care, functional Hindi and translation studies, Odia language and communication this year. It will also add certificate programmes in geriatric care and translation (English-Odia), the VC said.The varsity started with diploma courses in journalism and mass communication, rural development, cyber security, management and computer application last year besides six-month certificate programme in communication skill in English. Total 225 students had taken admission in the first academic year, Mohapatra said.The varsity has currently 32 study centres across the state. These would increase to over 50 this year, he said. The university has adopted complete online admission process. Last date of admission for this academic year is July 15 while classes will commence from August 1.
NAINITAL: Officials of the forest department are gearing up to ensure that tourist activity does not disturb animals in the future after reports that tourists in the Ramnagar forest division adjacent to Corbett had on Wednesday hampered the movement of a herd of wild elephants on their way to a water hole.  According to reports, a jeep full of tourists had stopped in the jungle in the Pawalgarh range of Ramnagar forest division when they saw a herd of elephants. They started taking selfies and clicking photographs.  Disturbed at this, the herd after reportedly waiting for more than half-an-hour for the tourists to make way, turned back instead of going to the water source where it was headed to quench its thirst.  Confirming the incident, Kehkashan Naseem, divisional forest officer, Ramnagar division, told TOI, "We received complaints on Wednesday about the incident and the matter is being looked into. Any such instance will not be tolerated and will be dealt with sternly."  As per the guidelines of the forest department, a vehicle taking tourists on a jungle safari should not block the way of wild animals. Neither are tourists permitted to step out of the vehicle to take pictures.  The incident was brought to the notice of the forest ranger by two residents of the adjoining Patkot area who spotted the safari jeep full of tourists busy taking photographs and clogging the road. "We were on our bike in the Jamunchaur area of the Pawalgarh forest range when we saw that the herd's way was being blocked by safari jeeps. We immediately complained to the forest department," said Sandeep Singh, one of the complainants.  The incident also highlights the increasing scarcity of water for animals inside the forests of Kumaon due to which they have to travel long distances to quench their thirst. TOI had reported a few days ago that 1.5 lakh litres of water was being procured every day by the forest department to meet the drinking water requirements of animals inside the Corbett Tiger Reserve.
Patiala: State-run carrier Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) has decided to add 100 mini-buses to its fleet. These buses will be put to use to connect villages with cities.The mini-buses will make the routes viable as consumption of fuel will be far less. Also, wear and tear of these buses will also be cost effective.PRTC managing director Ravinder Singh said that the same number of mini-buses would be put in service by Punjab Roadways.He added that the government had been approached by the ruralites seeking better connectivity with cities. Full sized buses were unviable on these routes. But in public interest the PRTC had been running the buses.These mini-buses will be operated under the kilometre scheme.
CPM on Thursday alleged that three women working under MGNREGA died of heatstroke in Jaisalmer, Ajmer and Baran districts and demanded proper shelters for the workers. However, authorities denied knowledge of any such deaths.  Two die after being run over by train: A youth and a 60-year-old woman were run over by two different trains in different localities in the city on Thursday morning. A yet to be identified man aging around 25 years was crossing the railway tracks after crossing a broken wall near Gandhi Nagar area was run over by a goods train. In another incident an elderly woman was crushed to death while she was hit by a passenger train near Jagatpura locality.  Truck collision kills one, injures two: One truck driver was killed while two others were injured in a head on collision of two trucks on NH-89 near Nagaur. The incident took place during wee hours on Thursday when one of the trucks lost control and hit another truck coming from the front side.  Guard foils ATM  robbery attempt: A guard deployed at the ATM machine of SBBJ bank near station road of Chirwa town of Jhunjhunu foiled a robbery bid late on Wednesday night. Unknown robbers barged into the ATM in an attempt to rob it but were faced by the guard identified as Ridhkaran (35).  Police arrests two for alleged stabbing: Jodhpur police on Thursday claimed to have arrested two people in connection with the stabbing of one Dalpat Singh at an ATM of the State Bank of Bikaner at Nau Mill here on June 1.
 MAPUSA: Mapusa police have arrested a   Dhargalim resident for outraging the modesty of a minor girl.  Mapusa police said that the parents of a 16-year-old girl lodged a complaint with police stating that on early Thursday morning, the accused   Ramesh Pujari came to their house and started abusing the victim and family with filthy words and caught hold of the hand of the minor girl and pulled her. She was later rescued by her parents. The complainant also stated that the accused latched the door of the house from outside and went away. Acting on the complaint, police registered the offence under Sections 504, 506, 509, 448, 342, 354 of IPC and under the Goa Children's Act and arrested the accused. Mapusa police is investigating the case.
Chandigarh (India), June 10 (ANI-Businesswire India): With his campaign titled "Stop Defaming Punjab", well known artist of   Punjab Harp Farmer wants to restore the pride of Punjab and has requested people to stop defaming it. The   Lipi Foundation is already running a campaign "From Shame to Pride" to end stereotyping. Pained by the defamation of Punjab on the drugs issue, Farmer started a drive against this negative agenda. He posted his video encouraging Punjabis to come forward to support the mission. The video has garnered more than 1.5 million organic views on Facebook within one week. Prominent celebrities Daler Mehendi and   Ankur Singh Patar supported his mission on social media with their selfie videos. Ankur Patar is one of the three illustrators in the world, Adobe is making documentary on. Over 1000 videos have already been posted by youth of Punjab on various social media platforms with the hashtag #StopDefamingPunjab. Finding Harp's idea in sync with their campaign "From Shame to Pride", Lipi Foundation joined hands with Harp. Dr. Mahek Singh, Prinicipal Consultant, Lipi Foundation says, "While I was working with CAPART, MoRD and Centre of Excellence, Punjab University as a research associate, I found that most of the issues in the social sector come from stereotyping. In case of Punjab, the negative stereotyping is leading to unrest. As a result the region is defamed and looked down upon. Through our campaign "From Shame to Pride" we at Lipi foundation intend to bring the unbiased and positive side of the region to the forefront. The startling news of drug abuse in Punjab have been making rounds in the country bringing a bad name to the state, which has prompted Harp Farmer to start an online campaign, which is gaining popularity. He launched this campaign through his page "Stop Defaming Punjab" (https://www.facebook.com/StopDefamingPunjab/). Addressing media persons here, Harp stated, "I feel the pain when I travel abroad and people paint all the Punjabis in negative colours of being drug addicts. But these are not the true colors of Punjab. My mission is aimed at presenting the true colours of Punjab and clear myths regarding the drug abuse." "It's a shame that some people are presenting a gory picture of Punjab for their selfish gains. Unfortunately they fail to understand that they are hampering the progress of the youth of Punjab. Drugs is a national problem and being a border state Punjab has been used as the doorway for drug trafficking but that doesn't mean all Punjabis are the consumers of drugs," he further added. Lipi Foundation and Harp Farmer plan to do awareness campaign in different colleges and villages across Punjab, to educate the youth against the social evil of drug abuse. Harpreet Singh is a multifaceted personality with a proven track in Photography, Filmmaking and acting. Widely famous as Harp Farmer from village Nadalon, District Hoshiarpur, Harpreet has been working with a sole motive of promoting Punjab and the spirit of Punjab for the last 5 years. He has held exhibitions in India and Australia under the banner "Colors of Panjaab" to showcase various facets of vibrant Punjab. Harp believes that there is a lot in Punjab that is still untold and that the villages (Pind) of Punjab hold a lot of talent, which needs to reach the world. The Lipi Foundation is a social organisation working in the space of Family Counselling and digital awareness and aims to construct better communications tools for common masses. The social organization was already running a campaign called "From Shame to Pride" which aims at bettering communication in the social sector. This newly formed association is certainly a good news for Punjab which was reeling under the attacks of sensational comments as a result of political vendetta in the region. (ANI-Businesswire India)
Indore: After the infamous ODI cricket match between India and Sri Lanka, which was abandoned due to bad pitch on December 25, 1997, Madhya Pradesh Cricket Association (MPCA) has been aggressively working towards retaining its pride. Finally, all the hard work is paying off; Indore would be hosting the first test match against New Zealand in the home-series which would commence from October.The Nehru stadium situated near the white church has hosted nine ODIs ever since 1983 till 2001, but the stadium was suspended later. The game was abandoned because the captains and umpires felt that the pitch was not suitable for the players to play. However, the match referee later decided to have a 30-over exhibition match to appease the restless crowd. After facing suspension for two years, Nehru Stadium again came into the limelight when it hosted one last ODI match on 31 March 2001 where Sachin Tendulkar created history by becoming the first player to reach 10,000 runs in ODI cricket. After this, in 2003, Holkar Cricket stadium was built near Racecourse road which till date has hosted around four ODIs. The last match held at Holkar Stadium was played between India and South Africa on October 2015. MPCA sources said, "After 1997, the whole cricket community was shocked after seeing the condition of the cricket ground. But the association since then has worked hard to improve the condition of cricket stadiums in Indore,"With a seating capacity of around 30,000 spectators and fully equipped with flood lights for night matches, the Holkar cricket stadium would be hosting ODI against New Zealand in the scheduled home series of three test matches. "The stadium has hosted 4 ODIs matches and in every single match India won, this is the reason why we consider it as a lucky stadium," said a MPCA official. He further added that Virender Sehwag had also created a record of the second highest ODI score of 219 at this very ground.
DEHRADUN: Hailstorm and rain lashed many parts of Dehradun on Thursday afternoon, damaging crops in the outskirts of the city.  According to the Meteorological Centre, suburbs like Jogiwala, Mothrowala and Balawala witnessed hailstorm lasting 30 minutes. The state capital received 26.5mm rain on Thursday.  "There are chances of hailstorm and thunder squall at isolated places in the state till June 12. Light to moderate rainfall may also occur at few places in the state during the next few days," said Bikram Singh, director, Meteorological Centre.  Many places in the hills also received rainfall. In Rudraprayag district, Bheem bali, Laincholi, Sonprayag, and Gaurikund witnessed thundershowers.
KANPUR: Three people from the side of bride were critically injured after members of groom family allegedly attacked them when they objected over 'Nagin' song played at a marriage procession in Kannauj district on late Wednesday night.   Marriage of Seema, a native of Zindapurwa in Kannauj was to be solemnised with a youth Sudheesh, a native of Dibiyapur area in Auraiya district, on Wednesday. Over a dozen people belonging to the grooms side entered into an altercation and brutally attacked the people from bride side at Zindapurwa villagein Thatia area of Kannauj district, when the latter objected to 'Nagin' song being played repeatedly by Band party members during a marriage procession late on Wednesday night, Kotwali police station incharge said.   The father of the bride, who refused to marry his daughter to the groom, later approached the police, but the matter was solved amicably with both the sides reaching at a compromise, said SHO Kotwali police station.   "Three people including girls and two uncles - Rajendra and Chotey Lal, besides her cousin Adarsh were injured in the clash and were admitted in the district hospital. Rajendra, whose condition became critical was later shifted to Kanpur," he said.   Policemen in large number were deployed in the village to ensure that the situation didn't go out of control again.
Kanpur: The eleven-year-old son of a bank manager was kidnapped from Naubasta area of the city on Wednesday evening. The kidnappers demanded a ransom of Rs 10 lakh from the parents of the boy. The family informed the police. Sources said the police had zeroed in on the location from where the kidnappers had made the ransom call.Ashutosh, a resident of Y-1 block in Kidwainagar, studying in class VI, had gone to attend coaching classes on Wednesday evening at 4.30 pm but did not return home. When the family members inquired about the boy from the teacher, they were told that Ashutosh had already left. Ashutosh's father Dharampal is the manager of bank. The parents lodged a missing complaint with the Naubasta police. Sources said soon after the parents returned home from police station, the kidnappers called the boy's father on his mobile phone and demanded ransom money. The caller also warned him not to seek police help else his son would be killed. The boy's father told police about the ransom call. The cops converted the missing case into kidnapping on the basis of mobile phone number and launched an investigation. The police suspect that some known person could have kidnapped the boy. Superintendent of police (south) Sanjay Yadav said that police team assisted by crime branch sleuths has been conducting investigation into the case.The police traced the phone to a person, who hails from Shivli area. The police have conducted raids after putting the phone on surveillance and detained few persons in this connection on Thursday.
Kalaburagi: Shaantveer Shivacharya Swami of Surangi Mutt in Kalaburagi district has come forward to contribute his bit. The seer has donated 12 acres of land belonging to the mutt to the government to build a lake at Bandarawad village, Afzalpur taluk. Having witnessed the sufferings of villagers due to drought in the past three years, the seer decided to donate his land and build a lake. "We are constructing a lake with the hope that it will help lift the groundwater level and provide employment so that villagers can meet the sowing expenses of kharif crops. The land is also very suitable for a lake as it is in a low-lying area," the seer told TOI. He has already transferred the land to the government by making a gift deed in the name of Afzalpur tahsildar.
Guwahati: The state education department, which is keen on producing a skilled workforce, has asked all universities in Assam to include skill development, vocational and professional courses in their syllabi.The move is in line with BJP's promise to introduce skill-based education for students of the state if voted to power.The directorate of higher education recently sent a letter to registrars of all state universities, urging them to alter the existing undergraduate and postgraduate syllabi by incorporating skill development, vocational and professional courses as an essential component.The directorate has sought an action-taken report from the varsity authorities on the matter. Sources said the state government's aim is to make such courses compulsory."As of now, some skill development programmes are being conducted in some colleges, but these are not mandatory. The state wants to train all students so they can find a job immediately after passing out," said an education department official.Education minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Wednesday asked all college principals to introduce vocational courses in their institutions to help students get skill-based education along with their academic degrees."If the syllabi at the university level has to be restructured, we want the government to provide us with manpower to train students. Certificates in vocational courses from government-recognized colleges will help students get jobs soon after they complete their studies," said a principal.
Jaipur: Senior health official Prithvi Raj said the strike had no impact on healthcare as back-up plans worked well. The health department deployed 550 medical officers in hospitals attached to the medical colleges to deal with the crisis. It directed district collectors to take help from private hospitals. The vice president of 20-point programme and former health minister Dr Digambar Singh played an instrumental role in breaking the deadlock. "Health minister Rajendra Rathore had appealed to the resident doctors to resume work unconditionally. Today, the resident doctors have decided to join the service without any such condition. Now, a meeting will be organised on June 11 to address their demands," Digambar Singh said. He also pointed out that there was a communication gap, which had been filled.
Coimbatore: Three people have been held for pelting stones at the house of former AIADMK MLA Karuppasamy, of Alathur village near Cheyur in Tirupur district on Wednesday night, following a quarrel over ritual rights at a Pattatharasiamman temple, where Karuppasamy was a trustee. The temple festival was held on Wednesday evening with the participation of over 300 devotees. Karuppasamy had gone to Avinashi along with the present Avinashi MLA Dhanabal. At the festival, a group of devotees attempted to perform a ritual. But Karuppasamy's family members prevented them from doing so and a quarrel arose between the two groups.Subsequently, a group of people pelted stones at Karuppasamy's house. Glass windows were completely damaged. They also damaged a few plastic chairs. When Karuppasamy's elder sister S Pappal and some other relatives attempted to pacify them, the gang also attacked them and fled. Pappal later lodged a complaint with the Cheyur police, who registered a case under 6 IPC sections and arrested C Thangapandi, 30, A Dhanabal, 32 and R Rajan, 32, all hailing from Alathur village. Police said the arrested people had worked for the DMK in the recent assembly election. There was previous enmity between the two groups during the campaigning for the recently-concluded state assembly election.
INDORE: An employee of an airlines was arrested late on Wednesday for allegedly trying to open people's baggage at the from Devi Ahilyabai Holkar Airport, Indore. According to police, Manish, 28, was spotted rummaging through passengers' baggage by CISF officials while they were scanning the CCTV footage. Manish was working with an airline company for seven years as a loader and was responsible for safe handling of baggage. "He was on the radar of CISF officials for quite sometime. When he was caught stealing on CCTV, he was arrested and taken to the police station," a police official of Aerodrome police station said. Manish was produced in court on Thursday and granted bail. CISF had been receiving complaints about theft from Indore airport, following which the personnel had been scanning CCTV footage.
Bhubaneswar: The state will conduct Odisha Travel Bazaar in November this year to invite tour operators and visitors to participate and promote tourism in the state."Odisha Travel Bazaar will be held on November 27 and 28 on the lines of Great Indian Travel Bazaar in Jaipur. The state tourism department will spend about Rs2 crore on the event where major tourism destinations will be showcased," said tourism minister Ashok Chandra Panda on Thursday. The tourist bazaar will be held in association with the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI).Recently, the Odisha Tourism faced criticism for the drop in the number of foreign tourists to the state despite spending huge funds in infrastructure development. In 2015, there was a fall of 4,455 foreign tourists to the state as compared to the previous year. While a total of 71, 426 foreign tourists visited the state in 2014, their footfall in the state came down to 66,971 in 2015. Countries like the UK and the US send a large share of tourists to Odisha followed by Germany, France and the Netherlands, official sources said."The state government has also plans to conduct road shows in foreign countries in coming months to attract tourists. Our roadshows are getting good response as a number of inquiries and tourists from countries like UK and USA are coming to the state," Panda added.
DEHRADUN: In a significant development, Uttarakhand assembly speaker Govind Singh Kunjwal on Thursday terminated the memberships of Rekha Arya, Congress legislator from Someshwar in Almora district, and Bheem Lal Arya, BJP MLA from Ghansali in Tehri district, for going against their respective party's whip during the floor test held in the state assembly on May 10.  The decision regarding the disqualification, which was in the offing since the past few days, was taken by the Speaker under the anti-defection law. Kunjwal had earlier on Tuesday reserved the judgement on the fate of the two MLAs after hearing the arguments put forward by Bheem Lal Arya and BJP chief whip Madan Kaushik who had pressed for Arya's disqualification. Congress MLA Rekha Arya failed to appear before the Speaker twice to reply to the show-cause notice served to her as well as Bheem Lal Arya on May 26. In an application addressed to Speaker Kunjwal, she had expressed her inability to respond to the notice claiming that she was unwell and hospitalized at Bareilly. She had also requested the Speaker to grant her 15 days' time to reply to the notice.  Principal Secretary (Vidhan Sabha) Jagdish Chandra told TOI that the Speaker had found no grounds for giving additional time to Rekha Arya to respond to the notice and had turned down her request. He added that the disqualification of the two legislators would come into effect from May 10, the day of the floor test.  With the termination of the membership of the two legislators, both Congress and BJP are one member less in the House. While Congress and its ally Progressive Democratic Front (PDF) have 33 MLAs (including a nominated member), BJP has 27 members, taking the total strength of the assembly to 60 from 62. Nine rebel Congress MLAs had earlier been disqualified by the Speaker on March 27.
Bhopal: Former DIG (prisons) Umesh Gandhi died on Thursday evening during his treatment at a private hospital. He was suffering from cancer and was admitted on May 5. He slipped into coma at around 3 pm following which he was shifted on the ventilator where he died after four hours, said sources. State government had revoked his suspension and posted him to the jail headquarters in May 2014. He was suspended on November 5, 2012, two days after Lokayukta raid on his residential and official premises. In the raids, Lokayukta had unearthed and unaccounted wealth in fixed deposits, insurance policies, jewellery and immovable properties worth crores. Lokayukta also raided the residence of the DIG's brother Ajay Gandhi.
Indore : Ratlam district administration has slapped a show-cause notice on a tehsildar for a controversial social media post, appealing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to launch a "suicide scheme in the name of Rajiv Gandhi for pseudo secularists".  Reoti tehsildar Amita Singh Tomar is the third Madhya Pradesh government official to court controversy over FB posts. On June 8, Amita Tomar's Facebook post sought a new scheme, 'Rajiv Gandhi Atmahatya Yojana' to allow Congress supporters to commit suicide after the applause received by Modi during his Afghanistan visit. "When Prime Minister went to Afghanistan, Muslims of that country waved the tricolour and chanted Vande Mataram and Bharat Mata ki Jai," she said in the post. The post went viral and caught attention of senior bureaucrats after which Ratlam district in charge collector Harjinder Singh issued a show-cause notice to Tomar for violating the Civil Services Conduct Rules on Wednesday evening. "I have received the notice and have been asked to reply in three days," Tomar told TOI, during her Ujjain visit on Thursday. Tomar clarified that she got the message on WhatsApp and posted it on her Facebook account. "I had no mala fide intentions. I did not want to hurt feelings of anyone," she said. She deleted the post, but the issue flared up on social media.Recently, various social media posts have landed state bureaucrats in trouble with the government seeking explanations from them. Barwani collector Ajay Singh Gangwar was shunted out for praising Jawaharlal Nehru in a Facebook post and Narsinghpur collector Sibi Chakravarthy was hauled up for praising Jayalalithaa on her electoral victory.
DEHRADUN: The Academic Council (AC) of Doon University held a meeting on Thursday chaired by university vice-chancellor, V K Jain, to discuss various curriculum-related issues even as the varsity students continued their protest for the fourth consecutive day.  Doon University's public relations manager, Gaurav Arora, said that issues raised by the agitating students were not discussed in the meeting. "Only course and curriculum related issues were discussed in the meeting as the academic council meet is held for academic purposes and not administrative purposes. But the issues of the students will be discussed in the executive council meet likely to be held this month."  Meanwhile, students are likely to meet the CM to seek his intervention."A student delegation will be meeting the chief minister on Friday and ask for a judicial probe against the VC and into the fraudulent recruitment in the varsity," said Vipin Joshi, SFI, vice-president who is supporting the agitation along with other student union groups like NSUI, ABVP and Aryan.
Indore: With less than fifteen days left for monsoon to arrive, a reality check shows that efforts of Indore Municipal Corporation(IMC) to counter waterlogging woes of the city may not prove to be enough. While IMC officials claim that they have worked on a bigger scale as compared to last year. Yet they are still apprehensive that some areas of the city might face problems. "The situation would be better than last year, but I cannot claim that water logging would not take place in any area of the city," said Rajendra Rathore, head of IMC's SWM department. However, Rathore said that the work that they had planned for the year had almost been completed. He said that the leftover work would be completed before the first rain of monsoon.Rathore said that their performance this year have been better even as the work periphery got bigger. He said that drainage system in the city had increased to more than 500km. Last year, it was only 270km. "We have cleaned the drainage system as far as possible. But a lot of area has been encroached. We will have to work with the administration and come up with a concrete plan to remove them," Rathore said. Rathore, however assured that the problems regarding drainage, roads transport and health would not be as severe as the last few years. Meanwhile, leader of opposition in the IMC, Fouzia Sheikh Alim said that all claims of the corporation would go in vain with the arrival of the monsoon. "The situation is going to worsen. Common people of the city suffered in summers as IMC did not have a proper plan. Something similar would happen during monsoon," Alim said. Alim alleged that IMC did not hold a single meeting with the corporates to prepare for monsoon. She also alleged that they had not given tenders for machines and cleaning equipment. "These allegations are baseless, all our machines are working, meetings related to issues have been held," Rathore said. Many areas of the city faced lot of problems during the monsoon last year. As the amount of rain is expected to be more than last year, the residents are hoping that that they do not face a similar situation. Areas like Chhavani, Rajendra Nagar police line, Patnipura, Jabran Colony, Mumtaz Colony, Neelkanth Colony, Jairampur Colony and Khajrana faced water logging. The entire BRT corridor faced water logging. Even the housing societies faced problems of water stagnation in parking spaces and on lanes. "With waterlogging, going to office during monsoon was a tough time for me last year," said Anuj Pawar, a resident of Palasia.
 Panaji: The Goa state commission for protection of child rights (GSCPCR) has asked the government to provide a separate room for public prosecutors and an independent room for witnesses.  During their inspection of the children's court premises at Patto, a few months ago, the members of GSCPCR found that the court room space was inadequate. The commission also wants all vacant posts in the court to be filled.  In its annual report, released on Thursday, GSCPCR also suggested that there by proper labelling facility. The commission stated that a separate room be provided for lawyers. Its other recommendations include proper toilet facilities for staff, victims and witnesses and their families as many travel long distances. Pantry and canteen facilities should be available, the report stated. tnn
Berhampur: Around 5,000 palm leaf manuscripts are lying in the archives of South Odisha Cultural Study Centre (SOCSC), Berhampur University, without proper conservation due to lack of funds. The manuscripts, some dating back to the 18th century, were collected from different departments like Odia, history and regional study centres in the university and some individuals. "We neither have funds nor staffers for their maintenance or preservation. With limited resources, we are trying our best to preserve the palm leaf manuscripts," said SOCSC director D P Patnaik. The university has posted a copier, who is now copying the manuscripts in a notebook. Around 500 manuscripts were treated three years ago under the National Manuscript Mission, a central government programme, he said. "The university has sought the assistance of the University of Tubingen, Germany, for digitalization of the manuscripts, but the talk has not progressed," he added. While the Odia manuscripts belong to Upendra Bhanja, most of Sanskrit manuscripts are on tantra and ayurveda. "The NAAC panel that visited the university in April appreciated preservation of the manuscripts. We will request the National Manuscript Mission, New Delhi, to conserve those," said vice-chancellor Deepak Kumar Behera. "We are also trying to explore resources for digitisation of the manuscripts," he said. Several old newspapers are also with SOCSC.
Tiruvannamalai: Suspecting the fidelity of his wife, a 34-year-old agricultural worker had reportedly murdered their two year-old son by throwing the child in to a farm well in Thurinjikuppam village near Santhavasal on Wednesday night. The incident came to light on Thursday morning when the villagers spotted a child's body floating in the well. The child's father Devaraj, of Krishnapuram, was also found lying in an inebriated condition near the well.Police fi shed out the child's body and sent it for postmortem. The angry villagers thrashed Devaraj before the police reached the spot.Police inquiry revealed that Devaraj, who married Komathi, 29, eight years ago, also has a 7 year-old daughter.After the birth of the boy, Sudeesh, two years ago, Devaraj frequently picked quarrels with his wife as he doubted that the boy was born out of an illegal affair, said the police. tnn
 Kanpur: UP government should recommend a CBI probe into the alleged death of key accused in Jawaharbagh incident of Mathura Ramvraksh Yadav, said BJP MP from Unnao Sakshi Maharaj.  "When even Ramvraksh's family is not ready to claim his body, how can we say he is dead or alive," questioned Sakshi while talking to reporters at the launch of Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojna in Unnao on Wednesday.  "Akhilesh Yadav government should recommend a CBI probe into the Jawaharbagh incident to bring out the truth," he added.  Debunking DGP Javeed Ahmed's statement that Ramvrakash had died in police action, Sakshi said: "Arms and ammunition recovered by the police from Jawaharbagh were intended to be used in the 2017 state assembly elections."  He also claimed that the Samajwadi Party had sheltered Ramvraksh. Targeting the Congress, Sakhi said the party was "synonymous with corruption", and termed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi as 'Pappu'. Sakshi also termed seer Swaroopanand Saraswati as a "Congressman" for his recent attacks on the Modi government.
Coimbatore: A dog sterilisation centre located in Vellalore Town Panchayat has been non-functional from the day of its inauguration more than four years ago, alleged RTI activist Daniel Jesudas. After building it at a cost of Rs3 lakh, the panchayat officials had also purchased a mini truck to catch dogs at a cost of Rs5 lakh, he said. "RTI replies have revealed that though the shelter has not been put to use, the panchayat has got a funding of over Rs50,000 from the state government. They claim to have caught many dogs and sterilised them. But the point is how can a building function without even electricity connection," he said. Kalpana Vasudevan of People for Animals - Unit II, an NGO, said that it was not just Vellalore but none of the village and town panchayats in the district has implemented the animal birth control programme. "The state government had passed an order after which funds were sanctioned and all the panchayats set up a small room on a three cent land. But if one needs to sterilise the dogs and monitor them, a few additional rooms are required. Moreover, the panchayat officials have misused the funds that were granted under this programme. So now, whenever we approach them, they say they have no funds left with them," she said. She said she is in talks with the Irugur town panchayat to implement the programme and will soon meet the assistant director, town panchayat, and the district collector to ensure that the dog sterilisation programme is soon implemented.When the Vellalore panchayat president was contacted, he said that a veterinary doctor from a government hospital located in that area visited the building and conducted the sterilisation programmes. "We have been catching dogs and taking measures to reduce dog menace," he said. But activists said that it was impossible to conduct sterilisation programmes in such a small building without any facilities.Daniel said, "I also have RTI documents that were given to me by the panchayat stating they had got funds from the state government for catching the dogs and sterilising them. But I am a resident of this area for so many years. I have never seen any such vehicle catching a dog in the past five years."
 Kanpur: If everything goes as per plan, the city will soon get an integrated traffic management (ITM) system for easy commuting and congestion free roads. It will also bring crime under control as drone and night vision cameras would be a part of this system.  Kanpur Development Authority (KDA) has given the responsibility of installing the ITM system to a Delhi based private company while the city's traffic department would invite separate tender bids for drones and night vision camera.  For installing the ITM system, the KDA officials had invited three companies from Jaipur and New Delhi to give presentation on the mechanism and working of the ITM system last month. Among the three companies, a Delhi based private company, which had scored the maximum marks in the presentation, has been shortlisted. The company has already started surveying busy crossings of the city so that ITM system could be installed as soon as possible.  When asked about specifications and features of the new traffic system, SP (Traffic) Sarwanand Yadav, while talking to TOI, said that the most important feature of this system is the drone camera and body worn camera for traffic cops. "Night vision cameras will be a boon for prominent crossings of the industrial city where people commute even during night hours". The drone camera operating from a height of 500 metre would get pictures and videos of those found jumping red light or breaking traffic rules, he added.  Talking about other advance features of the ITM system, he said that it would have a live telecast option connected to control room to capture movement of thieves and robbers. In case cops chase a chain snatcher or a robber, the drone camera would definitely provide the backup, thus it would help bring crime of the city under control, the SP informed.  He said that electronic signals would be installed at 75 prominent crossing of the city including Bada chauraha, Mall Road, Jareeb Chowki, Fazalganj, Govind Nagar, CTI etc to ensure smooth traffic movement.  "As far traffic rules violation is concerned, these cameras will take pictures of the vehicles breaking traffic rules, and e-challan would be generated online directly from the control room through special software. It would be later sent to the concerned person", Yadav informed.  Traffic management is big problem of the city for the past many years. Experts say that the root cause of the traffic problem is that people do not follow traffic rules strictly. They believe that the ITM system will certainly improve traffic movement of the city by checking traffic rules violators.
Gurgaon: A 30-year-old cab driver was allegedly stabbed to death by a man for having a relationship with the latter's wife on Wednesday. The body was found in the morning on Thursday by a resident.Police said Sandeep Poonia of Jind district had been working with an automobile firm as a cab driver, and had been living in Sirhaul village as a tenant. On asking around, cops found Poonia had been stabbed by a man living in the village as a tenant with his wife and kids. The man, identified as Deenanath from Faridabad, was interrogated, during which he confessed. He said he came down from the terrace on Wednesday night into his room and found Poonia sneaking out, and stabbed him. An FIR has been registered against Deenanath under Section 302 of IPC with DLF Phase 2 police station. tnn
 Panaji: Tourism minister Dilip Parulekar said his department will soon have a tourist security force in place that would help contain child sex tourism if prevalent in Goa. The existing tourist security force has few personnel on board and the department wants to increase its strength.  The tourism department has moved a file to chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar and they will be able to proceed further after his approval, Parulekar said on Thursday in response to queries about the existence of child sex tourism in the state.  "Every tourist destination has this problem," he said adding that once the state has its own tourist security force the department will be able monitor the situation better, even though the Goa police are doing a good job. "I'm not saying the problem doesn't exist," he said when asked.  When questioned on the same earlier in the day, chairperson of Goa state commission for protection of child rights (GSCPCR), Sushma Kirtani, said there is no data about child sex tourism in Goa. Questioned about the alleged rape of a minor involving St Cruz MLA Atanasio Monserrate alias Babush, she said GSCPCR has no jurisdiction when the case is before the children's court. The St Cruz MLA is currently out on bail.  Kirtani said GSCPCR was apprised of the case. They have had also instructed the child welfare committee (CWC) to ensure that the girl's identity was not disclosed. Soon after the case was registered last month, the girl's photos were trending on social networking sites.
VASCO: A 23-year-old woman, during her counselling session at   IPHB in   Bambolim , revealed that she was raped a year ago at   Remedios hill ,   Verna . Verna   police said that a case of rape has been booked against an unknown person. Police said the victim works for a private firm. She was perfectly fine until 15 days ago, when she started behaving in an abnormal way. She was first taken to Hospicio from where she was sent to the IPHB. On Wednesday, during a counselling session, she revealed that she was raped a year ago.  As her mental condition was not normal, the woman couldn't reveal more about the incident and the culprit. Her mother lodged a complaint with the Verna police. PSI Kiran Mamlatdar is the investigating officer. tnn
Panaji, Jun 10 () Rajya Sabha MP from Goa Shantaram Naik today opposed the state government's decision to allot five acres of land to Indian Navy for a Naval Enclave to be developed at the proposed Greenfield airport coming at Mopa.  The Defence ministry had proposed a naval enclave at the new airport which has been approved by state government.  "Indian Navy shouldn't be given land at the proposed International Airport at Mopa. Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar has once again played treacherous game against Goa's interest," Naik told reporters here today.  Goa's existing airport at Dabolim is run by the Indian Navy.  The foundation stone for the greenfield airport in north Goa is expected to be laid this year and first phase is likely to be commissioned in year 2019.  Defence Minister Manihar Parrikar had earlier said the proposed greenfield airport at Mopa will have a separate Naval enclave for which five acres of land would be earmarked.  Naik suggested that it would be ideal if the entire naval operations from Dabolim is shifted to Mopa leaving the current airport for use of civilian aircrafts.  "It is shocking to learn that our own man (referring to Parrikar) is insisting on giving land to Indian Navy when he has failed to get back the land occupied by navy in the state," he said.  "Indian Navy in the past has harassed Goans in the name of security and to allow it to grab land at Mopa would be disastrous for the state," Naik alleged. RPS ARS ANP
Coimbatore: City police commissioner Amalraj urged police personnel to deal with children in conflict with law in a humanitarian manner. They should not threaten or create fear in children. Such impressions, made at a young age, would stay with the child forever, he added. Speaking at a training programme for women investigating officers on the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) act at the conference hall of the city police commissioner's office on Thursday, Amalraj said that women police officers frequently cases where children are in conflict with the law. Thus, the training programme was organised by Childline along with the police department.B Anilkumar and S Arunmozhi, state level co-ordinators of Childline India Foundation briefed the police officers about the POCSO act and Juvenile Justice Act.
Guwahati: An employee of the state electricity board, Jotin Dhekial Phukan, was hit by a stray bullet while going to work on Thursday morning.Phukan, who was riding a two-wheeler, was crossing Kahilipara at around 10am when the bullet hit him. "I heard a sound and felt something hit me. I stopped a passer-by and asked him to examine my back. He told me I was bleeding. I rode to Guwahati Medical College hospital and got myself admitted," Phukan said while being taken for surgery.Many suspect the stray bullet might have originated from the state police firing range in Kahilipara. Sources in the state police battalion, however, said no firing practice session was held on Thursday. Phukan's family members alleged that he was shot by miscreants.
Jaipur: Nearly 269 unapproved residential colonies developed by the housing cooperative societies are expected to be regularised soon. The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has sought directions from state government to provide relaxation in this regard. This will increase the JDA's revenue as well as residents staying in these colonies will be provided with basic facilities such as road, water, electricity etc. A survey conducted by JDA two years ago revealed that around 1,200 residential colonies developed by the housing societies in the city cannot be regularized. An official informed, majority of colonies have not been developed as per the building planning committee norms. Also, JDA cannot regularize these colonies as many fall under the ecological zone. "In a recent meeting, the UDH department has sought a list of those colonies where there is a scope for regularization. Following this, we have shortlisted 269 such colonies," said a senior JDA official The list that will be sent to the UDH comprises 75% of unregualarised colonies of zone-6, which is maximum. In zone number 2, 5 and 14, the JDA has proposed to regularize more than 20 colonies. It was further informed, these 1,200 colonies, which cannot be regularized comprise of those being investigated by the Anti-Corruption Bureau, some developed on JDA and Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) land and also those developed in the Amanishah Nullah catchment area.To get regularized, it is necessary for the developer to reserve 40% area as facility area for parks, roads etc, while 60% is assigned for construction. "In many colonies, the construction is more than 90%. So even if they are regularized they will look more like slums," added the officer.Other than this, there are many colonies that fall under the ecological zone as per Master Plan-2025 and majority of them are situated on Agra Road. The ecological area of the new master plan was increased as compared to the previous plan and this is a major hurdle in the way of JDA regularizing these colonies.Also, they are waiting for ACB's final report before proceeding for regularization. The state government wants to regularise these colonies so that residents are not deprived of basic facilities.
Bhubaneswar: The state government on Thursday introduced nucleic acid amplification test (NAT) for screening of blood before transfusion, considered more accurate than conventional methods to detect HIV in blood, at the Capital Hospital. The test was introduced for the first time in the state at VSS Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, Burla, on Tuesday. Similar testing facility will be provided at SCB Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack, on Friday and MKCG Medical College and Hospital, Berhampur, soon, official sources said.The government has partnered with Roche Diagnostics India under the public-private partnership (PPP) mode to enable access to safe blood across the state, said health minister Atanu Sabyasachi Nayak. NAT enables screening of donated blood to reduce risk of transfusion transmitted infections (TTIs) in people receiving it.WHO recommendations mandate high quality screening of all donated blood for infections, blood grouping and compatibility testing, to meet healthcare needs. As a screening technology, NAT has proven effective in detecting window period cases of viral infections, including HIV infection.
GURGAON: A 20 yr old woman, who worked in a bar in Cyberhub, was beaten to death last night in Gurgaon. DLF Phase II police have lodged a case and arrested four persons including a woman in connection with the case.The victim, who hails from UP, worked in a bar. According to police the crime was committed to settle some past rivalry.The victim was beaten with sticks during which she suffered serious head injury and died due to heavy bleeding. A senior cop informed that the three accused are from Nathupur village while the accused woman is from West Bengal.
Gurgaon: The construction of the 60 m-road dividing sectors 37C and 37D has hit a new obstruction, with Huda now discovering there are eight houses falling in its alignment. Six of the home owners, whose property has been assessed for compensation, have procured high court stays, preventing their houses from being demolished. They are demanding higher compensation according to Huda officials. Two houses have not been assessed yet.The road is important, as oustees of many big projects such as SPR (Southern Peripheral Road), NPR (Northern Peripheral Road), etc, have been allotted alternative plots in the two sectors. The earlier alignment of the road needed demolition of around 50 houses in Garouli Khurd village. The project got stalled after these home owners filed cases in the Punjab and Haryana high court opposing the move. Eventually, the alignment was changed to minimise damage, after a few builders gave land to Huda for the road."Only a few houses are coming in the way now," said a Huda official. He said early completion of the road will benefit several residential projects. Over 8,000 flats, including in the affordable housing category, are on verge of completion here, said officials."We've been trying to remove the structures for two months. But till date, we've not received details from ground staff about compensation offered to home owners," said a senior Huda official. He added ground staff have been given three days to submit details, failing which they will be held responsible for the delay.Other important roads in the area, like the sector 9B-37C road and sector 9B-37D road, are also being delayed by pending litigation. "Now there's pressure to complete the sector 37C-37D road," said DTCP planning officer Jaibir Sharma. Completion of Dwarka Expressway is also linked to development of this sector. Families affected by its construction are being relocated in Sector 37C, and they want it to be developed soon.Meanwhile, Huda on Thursday said all decks have been cleared for completion of Southern Peripheral Road (SPR). The last 16 oustees will be allotted alternative plots by month-end. The construction of a 3 km-stretch of the 16 km-long road has been held up due to delay in acquiring 3.96 acres in Rambir Ki Dhani village that impedes in its alignment. SPR will originate from Gurgaon-Faridabad Road near Ghata and meet NH-8 near Kherki Dhaula, and is proposed to be connected to NPR (Dwarka Expressway) via a Central Peripheral Road (CPR). Together, the three roads are expected to ease traffic on Delhi-Gurgaon expressway. The 16 oustees will be given alternative plots in Sector 37D. "The rehabilitation and resettlement scheme will be the same as the one offered to others displaced by land acquisition for Dwarka Expressway," said a Huda official. Administrator Yashpal Yadav said, as the number of oustees for SPR is far less than for Dwarka Expressway, their claims will be settled earlier. "We're trying to allot alternative plots to SPR oustees at the earliest, and rehabilitate them as per our relocation and rehabilitation policy," he said. With the last hurdle in front of SPR cleared, Huda will also able to install water supply lines to sectors 68-80. So far, it used to supply water to these areas through tankers, as it had failed to get a permit to lay a pipeline.
Bhubaneswar, Jun 9 () With the   IMD predicting above normal rainfall in the state during the upcoming monsoon season, the Odisha government today began preparations of possible floods. "As the IMD has predicted about 113 per cent rainfall during this monsoon, we expect floods in Odisha. Therefore, we have already started preparation to face the impending eventuality," Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) P K Mohapatra told reporters after the Chief Secretary reviewed preparedness ahead of the monsoon. Earlier, the IMD had predicted arrival of monsoon in Odisha during the second week of June, Mohapatra said, adding ten more units of   Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) would be added to the existing ten units. He said a mock drill to verify the preparedness for the floods would be organised in all 30 districts on June 19. Mohapatra said flood and cyclone shelters would be kept ready for the eventuality. Gram panchayat heads were appointed as chairmen of the shelter managing committees, the SRC said, adding today's meeting also approved the State Disaster Management Plan for 2016. The plan stated that due to sub-tropical littoral location of Odisha, the state is prone to tropical cyclones, storm surges and tsunamis. It has a 480-km coastline along with 11 major river systems. "Its densely populated coastal plains are the alluvial deposits of its river systems. The rivers in these areas with heavy load of silt have very little carrying capacity, resulting in frequent floods, only to be compounded by breached embankments," the plan paper said. AAM DKB IKA
KANPUR: With the state government pushing hard to attract Bollywood filmmakers to shoot in various locations across the state, Uttar Pradesh Film Development Council(UPFDC) is all set to develop Pachnada -- a confluence of five rivers - as a film shooting location.   Member of UPFDC, Vishal Kapoor told TOI, "A proposal has already been mooted for developing Pachnada in Etawahin terms of a film shooting locale. A recent survey by UPFDC team of Pachnada sites revealed that they were suitable for shooting of films. The UPFDC team had also met district magistrate Nitin Bansal and put forth before him the proposal."   "The district magistrate has instructed his subordinates to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) and dispatched it to the state government for clearance," informed a senior member of UPFDC.   "The film locales across the state have been generating a lot of interest among filmmakers from Bollywood. Through the promotion of film shoots, the government is working hard to promote UP's natural assets as a destination for local and international tourists," informed Kapoor.   "The state's film policy and the natural treasure comprising of beautiful picturesque sites across the state, have been attracting a lot of Bollywood filmmakers to shoot even in B-class towns like Varanasi, Kanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Chitrakoot, Barabanki, Mathura and Agra besides state capital, Lucknow. If all goes well, Pachnada in Etawah could be another favourite shooting locale for Bollywood filmmakers," Kapoor told TOI.   "It's extensive view of sylvan beauty will surely attract them. It would not only increase the influx of national and international tourists, but also create employment opportunities for locals."   Pachnada is situated near Sindous village, 60 kms east-south direction of the district headquarters of Etawah, where Yamuna, Chambal, Kuari, Pahuj and Sindh intersect each other. The natural beauty of Pachnada makes the spots worth visiting and it's for sure that after being developed, it will attract filmmakers not only from Bollywood, but from abroad also.   "There are several patches at the bank of the Pachnada, which are several feet higher from the normal level of water. It provides an ample opportunity to look over the river and capture the scenic beauty of the place," said another senior member of UPFDC. "As Pachnada comes under the purview of the National Chambal Sanctuary, the project would be formulated with the conservation angle attached to it," he added.   There is a 350 years old Shiva temple and an old fort at Bhare at the confluence of Yamuna and Chambal. Pachnada is also a rich habitat for dolphins.
Belagavi: Transport system, business establishments and educational institutions were shut on Thursday in response to the Nargund bandh call given by the Kalasa Banduri Protest Committee. The bandh was called to protest the death of a farmer in Belagavi on Wednesday. Dharmanna Tahasildar of Yavagal village, Gadag district, died during a protest at the deputy commissioner's office in Belagavi. On Thursday, protesters kept his body for hours. The final rites were held only after Gadag deputy commissioner Prasanna Kumar pacified the protesters. Thousands of protesters demanded justice for Dharmanna. They closed the Hubballi-Bagalkot highway for hours till Prasanna Kumar arrived in Nargund.During the funeral procession in Nargund, protesters tried to remove tents erected by BJP workers involved in the legislative council election. After a verbal clash with BJP workers, the protesters took the body to Yavagal village.
Dharwad: The recent electrocution of a lineman attached to the Hubballi Electricity Supply Company (Hescom) while on duty at Belur Industrial Area has exposed the lack of safety. The three linemen who were electrocuted while attending to work in Dharwad district recently were reportedly not wearing safety gears. While linemen accuse the authorities of not providing safety materials like helmets, gloves, belts, gumboots, raincoats, officials blame the linemen for not making it a habit to wear safety gears despite repeated orders to follow safety measures.Speaking to TOI, a lineman, who did not wish to be named, said safety materials are being given to them, but not regularly. The work pressure is also a reason for linemen not wearing safety gears. "Even though, we have safety materials with us, sometimes we are not able to wear them because of the work pressure which is more when the power supply is affected in VIP areas," he said, adding that he survived twice from being electrocuted.Officials at Hescom, however, maintain that safety materials are being supplied to linemen on time and also on demand. Tenders have been floated to procure 600 safety belts, 3320 helmets, 1,050 gumboots, 1,500 rubber gloves and 1,500 raincoats, he added.Speaking to TOI, Santosh Kundar AEE, Hescom, Dharwad said, there is a strict rule that linemen should wear all safety gears before handling any work. "But some linemen are ignoring it. We will warn such linemen again and strict action will be initiated if they don't fall in line," he said.
Gurgaon: In an attempt to tackle traffic chaos, expressway concessionaire Millennium City Expressway Private Limited (MCEPL) will install message signboards at various spots on NH8.These boards, sources said, will alert commuters on impending bottlenecks, condition of roads and speed limits. Variable message signboard is one of the quickest methods to alert a road user on real-time changes in traffic patterns and road conditions. The hi-tech signages, according to sources, will be installed at eight spots on the expressway between Delhi and Gurgaon. Since the electronic signage can change messages on the basis of circumstances, the commuters will get information on alternative routes or diversions in case of an emergency situation."These boards will display safety-related information. For instance, commuters will be alerted if there is any accident on their way," said Naveen Yadav, manager, public relations, MCEPL. The signboards will be installed at Rao Tula Ram Marg flyover, Shankar Vihar footover bridge, Mahipalpur flyover in Delhi, Atlas Chowk, Rajokri flyover, Ambience Mall and Kherki Daula. The project, according to sources, will cost around Rs 1 crore.
Bhubaneswar: Chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday unveiled a statue of Odisha's only woman chief minister Nandini Satpathy on the occasion of her 85th birth anniversary. Satpathy was a good administrator, said Naveen while inaugurating the life-size statue installed near the Raj Bhawan. Her birth anniversary was celebrated by a number of organizations in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Berhampur, Dhenkanal, Baripada, Sambalpur, Delhi, Gurgaon, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Puducherry. The day is being observed as National Daughters' Day since June 9, 2007. It was proposed by then Odisha governor Rameswar Thakur and supported by former prime minister Manmohan Singh. The Nandini Satpathy Memorial Trust organized a meeting here. The Trust's chairman, Suparno Satpathy, said Nandini Devi's work for Odisha and for India needs to be documented.
Gurgaon: With the MCG putting on hold the closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras project for the city, the Gurgaon Police is now approaching residents to install electronic surveillance systems in their neighbourhood.Tentatively named "Operation Sanjay', based on the Mahabharata character who could see a battle from a distance, the drive is being replicated from Delhi Police's community project 'Nigehbaan' under which 1.63 lakh CCTVs were installed across the national capital, following an acid attack on a woman doctor by two bikers in December 2014."We started with the intention of women protection. It yielded good results in Delhi and now it will be replicated in Haryana and Chandigarh," IG (Chandigarh) Tejinder Singh Luthra, who had led the project as the then joint commissioner (south-west) of Delhi Police, told TOI on Thursday.Now, Gurgaon Police has started a survey to see how many cameras have been already installed by residents' welfare associations. Officials said the survey will also identify the areas and RWAs who can afford to install the cameras, as the police's role will be only of encouraging and facilitating."All SPs and commissioners in Haryana have been asked to encourage more people to install CCTV cameras both inside and outside their properties," police commissioner Navdeep Singh Virk said. "With this, we will also create a database for existing cameras, which can then be used for solving crimes," he added.MCG's CCTV cameras project has been put on hold after the civic body set up an inquiry to look into the expenses involved in procuring 61 hi-tech cameras that were installed at 13 locations, including Sadar Bazar, Railway Road, Rajiv Chowk, IFFCO Chowk and Signature Towers and were supposed to be functional by March 31 this year.
Dharwad/Belagavi: The legislative council elections from the Teachers' and Graduates' constituencies held on Thursday received a poor response from voters despite they being well educated and a high-voltage campaign by all the parties. The election, which will decide the fate of sitting MLCs Basavaraj Horatti of the JD(S), Mahantesh Koujalagi (Congress) and Arun Shahapur, was peaceful. The counting will be held on June 13. Horatti is seeking re-election from the West Teachers' segment for the record seventh time, while Koujalagi and Shahapur are seeking re-election from North -West Graduates' and North West Teachers' constituencies.While the West Teachers' constituency recorded 67.09% polling, it was lower in North West Teachers' and Graduates' constituencies which registered 56% and 48.05% respectively. These were tentative figures which could slightly vary in the final stage. In 2010, the West Graduates constituency had recorded 82.07% voting and 81.74 % in 2006. Polling in most of the booths across the three constituencies started on a sedate note and remained so till the end. Most of the polling booths in Hubballi-Dharwad wore a deserted look and in many centres the number of officials exceeded the number of voters at any point of the day.The poor turnout was attributed to the errors in the electoral rolls. At many polling booths, voters were seen arguing with officials after not finding their names in the rolls despite submitting applications for registration. There were instances of names of teachers who have retired figuring in the voters' list. As per rules, only those teachers who have retired within three years before the polling day can vote. However the voters list had names of the teachers who have retired four years ago.Another reason could be the teachers' apathy towards their representatives. The teachers feel that their just demands were not fulfilled by the successive governments in the past 15 years.
Belagavi: On Sunday, Vishwas Sankapal came to the Belagavi wholesale vegetable market from Mhopare village of Karad taluk, Maharashtra driving a Tempo loaded with 4 tonnes of tomatoes, hoping to sell them all and return home. But he never thought a single day's business would earn him Rs 2.5 lakh. This marginal farmer with 30 guntas of land travelled 180 kms to the wholesale market, where he found that not a single farmer from the district had brought tomatoes for sale. The huge scarcity created a sudden surge in demand and retail vendors queued up at his vehicle to purchase his tomatoes. On seeing the direct sale to retailers, wholesale dealers stayed out of the picture. He sold his tomatoes at Rs 650 per 10 kgs, up from the usual rate of around Rs 400 for the same quantity. In the retail market, the price touched Rs 80/kg and it could well shoot up to Rs 100. Usually, the Belagavi vegetable market depends on Karad tomatoes in summer because of decrease in tomato production in the region. However, the Ghataprabha riparian belt, especially villages coming under Gokak and Hukkeri taluks, produce vegetables in summer but this time, the output fell drastically due to the drying up of the Ghataprabha river. Salim Hanchinamani, a wholesale vegetable dealer who supplies vegetables to Goa, said, "For the past week, the price of tomatoes has been going up triggered by the scarcity. Tomatoes from Karad and Satara region have stopped arriving here. On Sunday, Vishwas Sankapal came with his first produce and was able to cash in on it."
CHANDIGARH: The 34-year-old son of prominent Canada-based Sikh businessman Parminder Pindi was shot dead in Toronto on Tuesday. Pindi is wanted by Interpol and Punjab Police in connection with the Rs 6,000-crore synthetic drugs scam. Sukhvinder Deo's body was identified by his father on Thursday.  While Deo was listed as a gangster in Vancouver police records, Punjab Police have been seeking Pindi's extradition since last September.  The businessman and alleged drug lord has hired a lawyer in Punjab to fight his extradition case.  Although Sukhvinder's assailants have not been identified as yet, Toronto police have tweeted that they are on the lookout for two suspects. The cops have said that both attackers were armed and were seen fleeing in a black car. Punjab and Haryana high court had three weeks ago rapped Punjab Police for the delay in submitting a report on its investigation into two Canada-based absconding NRIs - Satpreet Singh alias Satta and Pindi. According to local newspapers, Deo was shot while he was inside a white Range Rover. Two men fired at him in broad daylight in an alley near a busy intersection in the city.  "Deo lived in Metro Vancouver, he was aligned with the Independent Soldiers gang," the Vancouver Sun reported. He even had convictions for resisting a police officer, driving while his license was suspended, assault and also in cases of drug-peddling. Pindi's second son Harjit too was convicted in a 2005 kidnapping case along with others. In November 2013, former Arjuna-award winning wrestler Jagdish Bhola was caught with the massive haul of party drug Ice and was later called the kingpin of the scam. Pindi is alleged to have been a middleman in transporting pseudoephedrine and ephedrine, chemicals needed to make Ice. He is one of 11 NRIs wanted in the case.
Bathinda: The Punjab Congress has demanded removal of Union agri minister Radha Mohan Singh for his regular utterances against the farming community. The party is also planning to oppose Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his scheduled visit to Chandigarh on June 21 to participate in the International Yoga Day to demand removal of Radha Mohan.Congress MLA Sunil Jakhar said here on Thursday that the Union agriculture minister had crossed all limits of showcasing his annoyance against farmers across the country. He said on June 8 that Radha Mohan had claimed that the NDA government wanted to end big hikes in the minimum support price (MSP) of crops."He has lost the right to remain as the Union agriculture minister for his anti-farmer remarks," said the Abohar MLA. He also accused Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and his daughter-in-law Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who is also a Union minister and a colleague of Radha Mohan, for not objecting to such remarks.The former Congress legislature party (CLP) member said, "In April this year, Radha Mohan had given a statement in the Parliament that farmers were not committing suicides due to farming-related issues but due to domestic reasons. He had then refused to entertain the demand for farm debt waiver in May in the presence of Punjab agriculture minister Tota Singh. On June 8, he went a step ahead and said the Union government wanted to stop giving big hikes in MSP."Jakhar said that MSP for paddy was hiked by Rs 60 per quintal which was 4.15% whereas the inflation was at 7.74%.
Bhagowal: Stating that the objections against the film 'Udta Punjab' were raised by the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) and not by the state government, Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal said that the state government couldn't be held responsible for it when the censor board was exclusively under the control of the Centre.Badal was talking to mediapersons here on Thursday before leaving his 'sangat darshan' programmes in between and going back to Chandigarh due to poor health.In reply to a query about dharnas by the Congress, the CM said, "The state-wide dharnas by the Congress are nothing but political gimmicks. The Congress leadership is hell-bent on wasting its energy by politicizing the issue."Badal said the state government was already pro-actively probing all cases related to recruitments and law and order. He said that Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Captain Amarinder Singh should play a constructive role for the development of state and betterment of its people rather than blowing such issues out of proportion.Once again asking people of the state to be prepared for a struggle to save river waters of Punjab, Badal raised a question mark on the sincerity of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener Arvind Kejriwal. He said, "Kejriwal is from Haryana so he is naturally inclined towards safeguarding the interests of his native state. "He has no affection with Punjab or its people and his sole intention is to wrest political power in the state to benefit his native state." Speaking about the affidavit submitted by the AAP government in Delhi on the Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal issue, the Akali patriarch said that it had stated before the court that the stand of Punjab on the issue would disintegrate the country. Amritsar-based Manav Vikas Welfare Society held a protest against 'Udta Punjab' in the city on Thursday. While addressing the gathering, society president Kamal Kishore said that the film only blemished the brave people of Punjab who had borne the brunt of wars with Pakistan. "The film has shown Punjab in poor light, which is not the reality. Drug abuse is everywhere, maybe more in Maharashtra. Why Punjab is being singled out? It has already brought bad name to the state and people living outside Punjab see every Punjabi as drug addict," he said, adding that they wouldn't allow the screening of the film in the state.
Chandigarh: The Central Board for Film Certification (CBFC) may insist that there are no political motives behind the objections it has raised with the film 'Udta Punjab'. However, the 13 reasons that it has cited for the 89 cuts and the 'A' certificate are definitely not cinematic in nature. A copy of the CBFC document listing out the reasons states that it wants a disclaimer at the very beginning in which the Punjab government and the Punjab police are given a clean chit. Also, it should be clearly stated that it is only a work of fiction.CBFC has also told the filmmakers to "Delete the word Election, MP, 'Party' 'party worker', MLA Punjab and Parliament," the note says.The 12th reason states: "The first disclaimer should be audio-video and should read thus - 'The film focuses on the rising menace of drugs and the war against drugs and is an attempt to show the ill-effects of drugs on today's youth and the social fabric. We acknowledge the battle against drugs being fought by the government and police. But the battle cannot be won unless the people of India unite against the menace'. "Besides, it is not just the film's title that CBFC wants changed by having 'Punjab' dropped from 'Udta Punjab'. It also wants the names of seven of Punjab's districts to be deleted from the movie whether as a reference or in the form of dialogue."Delete signboard of Punjab in the beginning. Punjab, Jalandhar, Chandigarh, Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Jashanpura, Ambesar, Ludhiana and Moga be deleted from background and dialogue wherever it occurs, "the CBFC note says. Despite the film's co-procerducer Anurag Kashyap asking political parties to stay away from his fight with CBFC, both AAP and Congress are engaged in a fierce battle over drug abuse with the Shiromani Akali Dal and are unlikely to back down.The CBFC has also raised objections on visuals of closeup shots of people injecting the drugs. "From song. no. 1 delete the word Chittave and `hara**' everywhere,"the note goes on. In Punjab, Chitta is a common trade name for heroin and smack, and is the most frequently consumed drug.The board has also asked the producers to remove all visuals of Sikh men scratching or itching after taking drugs.
Kanpur: In order boost the trade of 'attar' and other aromatic products, the horticulture department of Kannauj is set to promote rose cultivation by imparting training to farmers and increasing the area under cultivation. The farmers will be sent to Etah and Hathras districts, famous for rose cultivation, where they will undergo training on the latest technology in cultivation of roses. Kannauj has nearly 10 hectares of agricultural land, where roses are grown.In the district, there are two categories of farmers, one who cultivate rose shrubs exclusively in their plots and have made it their main occupation, while others grow rose bushes in their agricultural lands for extra income."We have instructed the horticulture depart to prepare a list of farmers interested in learning advanced techonology in rose cultivation. The agriculture department will bear all the expenses. We will assure farmers there is a good return and encourage them to undergo training in Etah and Hathras districts from where rose buds are being currently supplied to local 'attar' manufacturers," the district horticulture officer said.Training and pruning of crop is one of the most important practices which influence flower production significantly. "In roses, this practice will be recommended from mid-December to mid-January in which farmers can get good yield. In the district, there are few, who have adopted an innovative practice of 'alternate year pruning'. In this practice, the crop is trained and pruned one year and kept unpruned in second year. Through this practice, second year crop gives higher number of branches and flowers," deputy director, agriculture, Rajesh Kumar said. This technology is cost effective and more remunerative in areas like Kannauj, where distillation of flowers is commercially done for extracting essence and its marketing. The farmers could save the money and increase his profit, he added."Also, we will increase the area under rose cultivation which at present is 10 hectare. The aim is also to introduce diversity in agriculture so that farmers can choose from value crop instead of usual cash crops like paddy, wheat, potato or jowar," another officer of the agriculture department said.
 Kanpur: Three persons have been booked in connection with a case in which the body of a woman was found hanging from a tree in Ghatampur area of the city on June 1.  The woman's sibling in his complaint lodged with the Baraur police has alleged that she was raped and then strangled to death, by three men, identified as Ram Sajeevan, Chunnu and Lakshmi, all belonging to Hajipur village. "They strangled the woman and hanged the body to make it look as if she had killed herself," he stated in the complaint.  The woman went missing on May 28, and her body was later found hanging from a tree outside the village on June 1. Subsequently, on the basis of a complaint filed by the woman's sibling, an FIR was registered against a local a money-lender Ram Sajeevan, his two aides Chunnu and Lakshmi at Baraur police station on June 4.  According to the woman's sibling, the latter had borrowed Rs 20,000 from local money-lender Ram Sajeevan for her daughter's marriage. "When she couldn't return the loan on time, Ram Sajeevan, kidnapped her along with Chunnu and Lakshmi on May 28 night while she was sleeping in her house. They later took her to a desolate spot, gangraped her and later strangled her to death", the sibling alleged.  To make it look like a case of suicide, they had hung her body from a tree and left the spot, said SHO Baraur Nafees Ahmed.  The SHO said that the police, after registering an FIR under various sections including 376 of IPC, are conducting raids to nab the three suspected persons.  "The medical report has confirmed 17 injury marks, rape and strangulation," said another senior police officer.
Karwar: Forest officials in Uttara Kannada district feigned ignorance amid emerging reports of the union government's move to declare the region a Vulture Conservation Zone. Speaking in Karwar on Monday, MP Ananth Kumar Hegde had said that the union government had finalized the draft and would make a formal announcement soon. He had pointed out that vultures, that had once been a common sight in the district, were now on the verge of extinction. "Our farmers are now complaining of the damage that they have to bear because monkeys are destroying their paddy fields. Vultures, which feed on baby monkeys, had once kept the monkey population in check thereby maintaining ecological balance in the Western Ghats. Now, culling of monkeys might prove counterproductive. Uttara Kannada will be declared a Vulture Conservation zone along the lines of Ratnagiri and Chiplun in Maharashtra," he had said.Chief conservator of forest Ashok Basarkod said that he was unaware of any such planned move by the union government. Citing noted environmentalist Shivanand Kalave, Basarod said that the vulture had last been spotted in the district in 1998. "Barring Ramanagar, where there is a vulture sanctuary, these birds are not seen in any other part of Karnataka," he added.Basarkod, who assumed charge recently, said that he had studied all documents thoroughly to verify Hegde's claims. "As is the case with 'hornbill Conservation', the forest department must carefully study the implications of conserving vultures in the area," he said. Anant Kumar Hegde was not available for the comments.
Bhubaneswar: The commissionerate police on Wednesday arrested a autorickshaw driver in connection with the alleged murder of a girl near Jatni on May 6. The accused was identified as Manas Nayak, 27. Police said Nayak, father of two, had an illicit relationship with the girl for past two years and killed her when she insisted on marrying him. The girl was working in a garment shop in Cuttack.On May 5, the accused asked the girl to accompany him and took her towards Khurda in his autorickshaw. He then dragged her into a paddy field near Gangapada and hammered her head with a rock, said a police officer. The body was found along NH-16 the following day. The identity of the girl could not be ascertained for a week in the absence of any ID proof. Prima facie, police suspected it to be a case of rape and murder. The medical report, however, dismissed the rape angle. An empty liquor bottle was found near the body. Police got to know about Nayak from the deceased's mother. "She told us about an unknown number from where he called the victim. We traced the number to a tea stall in Cuttack. The accused and the girl often visited the stall," the officer added.
A local court on Thursday awarded 10 years' rigorous imprisonment to a 21-year-old man for raping a 16-year-old woman for five months. The accused, identified as Ranjit Kumar, promised to marry the girl, but refused later.Additional sessions judge I of Bokaro court, Babita Prasad, held the accused guilty under section VI of the protection of children from sexual offences act (POCSO). The court directed the state government to provide compensation to the victim. Woman, sons get life for murder: A local court in Giridih sentenced a 50-year-old woman and her three sons to life imprisonment in a five-year-old murder case. The court of the district sessions judge, Sunil Kumar Singh, also asked each of the convicts - Devanti Devi, Bitul Kol, Badku Kol and Chhotku Kol - to pay Rs 5,000 penalty.  'Sex offender' held in Palamu: Police on Thursday arrested an armed 32-year-old. The accused has been identified as Mandev. DSP Heera Lal Ravi said police seized a desi katta and cartridges from Chouthasa. "Locals said the man is a repeat sex offender," said Ravi. Mandev has been remanded to judicial custody under the arms act.  Drive against mahua sellers: The anti-liquor campaign launched by women groups in rural areas prompted police to conduct special drive against mahua sellers and illegal sale of liquor in the district at different locations under eight police stations. Police recovered 84 liters mahua, 89 pouches of countrymade liquor, 21 bottles of beer and several whiskey bottles which were being are sold illegally.  History-sheeters held: Giridih police arrested four history-sheeters from Bhelpahari forest area under Bengabad police station, almost 20 km from district headquarters, on Wednesday night. The gang was allegedly planning an attack near Mahesh Munda.
Indore: In an apparent case of road rage, armed bikers shot at and injured another rider after a fight broke out over a minor accident at Gopur Square on late Wednesday night. The 22-year-old victim, Anil Verma of Damodar Nagar, was rushed to the district hospital after he suffered a bullet injury on his thigh. His condition is reported to be stable.The incident raises questions on how brazenly guns were carried by the accused and used on a busy road.The incident took place just a few metres away from Gopur Square, when the victim was returning home after meeting his friend at a mall in Palasia area. He was accompanied by his brother Pankaj.Two men travelling on a bike, who were speeding and driving recklessly, crossed Verma and accidentally bumped into his vehicle, the Dwarkapuri police said.Verma fell off the bike and skidded on the road. He got upset and hurled abuses at the duo, who returned to the spot and entered into an argument. One of the accused pulled out a gun and shot at Verma. The bullet got lodged in his left thigh, police said.As Verma fell to the ground, the attackers drove away from the spot. Pankaj called the ambulance and emergency police service, but as help got delayed, he took his brother to the district hospital on his bike.
DEHRADUN: In the run-up to the passing out parade at Indian Military Academy (IMA), the Commandant's Parade was held on Thursday to mark the end of training of 565 Indian and 45 foreign gentleman cadets from six friendly foreign countries.  Lt Gen S K Saini, who took over as the 46th commandant of IMA, reviewed the parade and complimented the gentlemen cadets on their "excellent' drill movements. Congratulating the cadets on successful completion of their training, Saini said, "Army is one of the most outstanding institutions in the country and all of you have made the wisest and the most honourable choice of joining this organization irrespective of the hardships that you will have to endure in the future."  Saini urged cadets to uphold the traditions of the Indian Army and keep the trust that people of the nation have on them.  The passing out parade for the cadets will be held on Saturday and is likely to be attended by Lieutenant General Sarath Chand, General Officer Commanding-in Chief (GOC-in-C) of the Jaipur based South Western Command.
Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday held that the prescribed procedure of allotment of L-1A licences under the Excise Policy 2016-17 of the Punjab government is invalid and inoperative for being non-transparent. The HC has held that the policy does not prescribe the manner and the method of licence allocation."Sub-clause (ii) of Clause 2.14 in the Excise Policy 2016-17 for grant of L-1A licence in Punjab is invalid and inoperative to the extent it does not prescribe the manner and the method of its issuance by the manufacturers or the distilleries," said the HC.The court, however, has held that category licence L-1A in the Punjab Liquor Licence Rules 1956 in the modified form is legal and valid. It has asked the Punjab government to make allotment of L-IA by holding public auction or by draw of lots.It has also been clarified by the HC that if after taking corrective measures and inviting fresh applications, in case no fresh offer or application comes forth, the allotments, if any, already made shall continue for the rest of the period.A division bench comprising Justice Ajay Kumar Mittal and Justice Raj Rahul Garg passed these orders while disposing of a petition filed by Amarjit Singh Sidhu, challenging the new category of L-1A licence in Punjab government's new excise policy for allegedly benefiting certain groups.Suggesting that the government prescribe a transparency in allotment of L-1A, the bench observed, "It is trite law that whenever a contract is to be awarded or a licence is to be given, the public authority is under legal obligation to adopt transparent and fair method for making selections so that all the eligible persons/aspirants get a fair opportunity of competition."The petitioner's counsel Mohan Jain argued that the L-1A licence has been created just to monopolize the trade of liquor in Punjab. Earlier, there was procedure in the excise policy that the person who was licensee of L-1 wholesale licence shall take the liquor directly from the manufacturing company, he prayed.The counsel submitted before the court that after adding L-1A licence, it was specified that a person who was a holder of an L-1 licence would have to take the liquor for sale from an L-1A licencee - newly-created category of licence in the Excise Policy 2016-17. He had further claimed that the new licence has been created to monopolize the liquor trade and extend the same to the particular group of persons namely Chadha group, Malhotra group, Doda group and AD group who are at present major stake holders in the liquor business in the state and instrumental in influencing the excise department for creation of new category -- L-1A licence -- for their own economic interest.The petitioner had sought directions to quash the clause 2.14 of L-1A licence added by the government in the policy on March 13 for the year 2016-17 for being arbitrary, illegal and against the provisions of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914 and the Punjab Liquor Licence Rules, 1956.
Jaipur: Friday, the 10th day of the Jawab Do yatra, also marks the day when Sahul Kundara might have turned 28 if he had not committed suicide in February this year. The Dalit youth had fallen in love with Varsha Sharma of Delhi, whom he met on Facebook. The couple had married secretly in November 2014, but when the girl's Brahmin parents realized she had married a Dalit, all hell broke loose. The couple had earlier approached the court seeking freedom from parental harassment. The Rajasthan High Court in September 2015 had barred the girl's parents from meeting her and earlier restrained them from harassing the couple.After the girl moved in with her parents-in-law, there was a spell of domestic peace. In February this year, however, the girl's brother was set to leave for Canada, and the couple was invited to meet the Sharmas in Delhi. Kundara was allegedly abused and humiliated. Kundara's father said his son even telephoned a friend, saying he was being poisoned."We rushed to Delhi and were told over phone by Varsha's parents that we should reach the Rajendra Park police station," Kundara's father said. After facing much abuse and humiliation, the family managed to return to Jaipur with the young man. The young man, however, had withdrawn into a shell since his trip to Delhi. On February 20, he jumped to his death in front of a train, leaving behind a suicide note in which he explained that he was being forced to end his life as his parents-in-law had turned extortionists. The suicide note said Varsha's parents sought Rs 8 lakh from Kundara to defray expenses they had allegedly incurred in tracing the couple. Kundara also mentioned that he had been warned at the police station that if he did not behave as a member of his caste, he would find his skin crafted into a shoe.On Friday, the Jawab Do yatra will take up the issue of the freedom of young people to choose partners.
Indore: The beginning of the holy month of 'Ramzan' has led to a significant rise in the sale of dry-fruits. During the month long celebration which began from June 7, Indoreans have been relishing different varieties of dry fruits like almonds, coconut, cashew nut, pistachios and raisins imported from Afghanistan, Pakistan, United States of America (USA), Australia and several other countries.  "In general, dry-fruits are costly and the market is facing continuous fluctuations in their prices. But the sales tend to be at its peak during the first and the last week of the 'Ramzan' month. We are expecting figures to go up by 60 per cent," said Sanjay Nema, Vice-President, Dalal association which is involved in the sale of dry-fruits.Citizens claimed that during the first and last week of the month when 'Eid' is celebrated dishes like 'pulav', 'halwa' and 'pherni' are incomplete without dry-fruits. "Dry-fruits have a high-nutrient value and the home-made sweets made from them are liked by all. Apart from this, fruits are also a major part of diet during this holy month," said Dinesh Agrawal, a shopkeeper. "Dates are like a staple diet during the entire month and as they play a significant role in curbing the hunger during the fasting time, it is preferred a lot," said Neha Farooq, a home-maker. Traders dealing in the dry fruit business across the city are expecting further splurge in the market as the 'Eid' preparations would start in the city. "Market has been responding slowly but we hope that this month, market would get better," said Bharat Agrawal, a trader.
 Kanpur: The cricket fans in the city expressed happiness when they came to know that Green Park is going to conduct two international matches in coming months.  A Test match will be held against New Zealand and a T-20 against England in season 2016-17. The dates have not been finalized and announced later.  The cricketers of Kanpur and office-bearers of Uttar Pradesh Cricket Association have welcomed the announcement. Prem Dhar Pathak, director, UPCA hoped that UPCA would organize both the match perfectly. "Experience of successful organization of the two IPL matches have given a lot of confidence and now UPCA could conduct the match of any format successfully," he hoped.  UPCA CEO Lalit Khanna stated that the new season would begin from September and the association had enough time to prepare. Green Park is ready, he added.  Local Ranji and Test players like Shashikant Khandekar, Gopal Sharma, Mukesh Pandey and others have also welcomed the schedule. The matches would give opportunities to cricketers and fans to see their favourite players in action.
Chandigarh: A day after Congress MLA from Dera Baba Nanak, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, was caught on camera slapping district president of Congress Seva Dal I S Gulati, the party leadership tried to reach out to the latter to placate him.Sources said two Congress MLAs - Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukh Sarkaria - met Gulati, reportedly at the instance of Punjab Congress president Captain Amarinder Singh, to get his side of the story. The party leaders, however, maintained that the initiative by the MLAs was in their personal capacity. Gulati told TOI, "The MLAs made me speak to Amarinder and he regretted the incident. But for me there will be no closure until Randhawa himself tenders a public apology after he manhandled me in full public view. The party leadership asked me to bury the hatched and said they will also arrange a meeting with Randhawa. But I have already said that either the party should take action against him or I will get a police case registered, besides taking up the matter with Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi. "Gulati is the district president of the lesser-known sister organisation of the Congress in Pathankot and was demanding that he be allowed to sit with the state leadership at a dharna led by Capt Amarinder to highlight non-payment of dues to sugarcane farmers in Dinanagar.The unnecessary controversy has come as a blot from the blue for the party and senior party leaders said that such incidents had better been avoided in the run-up to the assembly elections. "Such behaviour goes against the attempt to give Capt Amarinder a more accessible image. The party leaders at grassroot level also want a little importance and the party should allow that," said a party leader.
Belagavi: Four Belagavians are part of an 18-member trade and investment delegation of the United States-India Importers Council (USIIC) which will visit Washington DC, New York and New Jersey from June 18- 23. Venkatesh Patil, MD and CEO of Belgaum Oxygen Pvt Ltd, Vilas Katwa, CEO, Shri Keshav Cement and Infra Ltd, Parag Naik, CEO, Saankhya Labs Pvt Ltd, and R K Patil, CEO, Vayavya Labs Pvt Ltd, feature in the Indian delegation which represents various sectors.The delegation will attend "SelectUSA", a project of the US department of commerce, where states of the USA present their trade and investment opportunities. President Barack Obama will deliver the keynote address at the highest-profile event. The USIIC works in India and the USA to promote technology transfer, joint ventures, investment, franchising and trade between the two countries. It is headquartered in Mumbai with chapters in New Jersey, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad.
Guwahati: To help rural women in Assam get acquainted with the internet, Google India, in collaboration with Tata Trusts, has launched an initiative called 'Internet Saathi' across four districts of the state.'Internet Saathi', which was first launched in Rajasthan in July last year, provides technological training to rural women and familiarizes them with data usage and the internet.Google and Tata Trusts work together with local self-help groups to train women who are then called 'Internet Saathis' and given net-enabled devices like tablets and smartphones. They, in turn, train others in their villages. After training, the women can avail themselves of benefits like finding information on farming, government schemes, stitching, cooking, healthcare, childcare, identifying job opportunities and keeping abreast of news.A team from Google India on Thursday said it would chalk out a plan to make the initiative more feasible and include the maximum number of rural women. So far, 100 'saathis' have been trained and equipped with smartphones and tablets in Assam. "Assam and Tripura are the two states in the northeast where the initiative has been launched. There are currently 100 Internet Saathis in Assam. We expect to cover 300-400 villages in the state over the next few months," said Sapna Chadha, head of marketing, Google India."Assam has a rich culture and heritage. Through the initiative, rural women here can help promote their traditional skills like cooking and weaving," she added.According to statistics, out of 350 million internet users in India, only 100 million are from rural areas. Out of this, only 10 million are women. This roughly translates to one woman internet user out of 10 in rural India.The 'Internet Saathi' project has touched the lives of more than two lakh women across nine states. The women are not only discovering the joys of the internet, they are also getting a chance to become independent.
PANAJI: Wading into the ongoing controversy surrounding the Shahid Kapoor starrer Udta Punjab, Rajya Sabha MP Shantaram Naik on Friday said that the censor board needed to understand its ambit and respect artistic liberties."The board must examine such matters with a neutral mindset. The censor board must know its limitations, it must respect art," Naik said.Censor Board chief Pahlaj Nihalani ordered the removal of all references to Punjab and elections, imposing 89 cuts on Anurag Kashyap's film Udta Punjab, which deals with drug abuse in Punjab."Maybe he is really a chamcha but I don't expect such type of action against films," the MP said but stopped short of calling for the removal of the censor board.The censor board had argued that several of the scenes in the movie which were asked to be cut were vulgar.
Indore : Having faced a tough time during last monsoon with vehicles getting submerged in basement parking lots leading to huge losses, this time people are well prepared to prevent damage. Be it advising kids to cover their two wheelers during rain or planning to park vehicles far from low-lying areas, residents are not taking any chances this time."We have got the drains cleaned and widened them to avoid waterlogging. We have also set up four pumps in our basement parking for easy outflow of water. Along with this, a motor pump has also been installed in our complex. If the rainwater rises above a certain level, it will automatically start flushing out the water," said Balaji Heights Residential Society secretary Vaibhav Rege.Recalling the problems faced last year, Rege said, "Around 100 cars of our locality were severely damaged last year and it took 72-80 hours to clear water from the basement. We are hopeful that a similar situation won't arise this time." Another resident who lived in the nearby housing complex, Nariman Point, said she left the locality after the previous monsoon. "My luxury car got damaged last year so I have shifted to another apartment where the pavement is on a higher level and there is a proper system to clear water." she said.
Chandigarh: The 2017 Punjab assembly elections will not only have a fresh lot of electronic voting machines (EVMs) to rule out problem caused by outdated ones in the last polls; voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) EVMs will also be used for the first time in the state at certain polling booths as part of a pilot project.Meanwhile, preparations for the assembly elections seem to have formally kicked off with a video conferencing of Punjab election department officials with the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Wednesday to identify the key areas to work on ahead of the elections scheduled early next year.Punjab's chief electoral officer V K Singh said a voter registration campaign to cover the youth will soon be aggressively carried out in colleges in the state when the new session begins so that the electoral rolls could be updated.The VVPAT EVMs, he said, come with the feature of enabling the voter to verify his vote by looking at a slip of paper. But since it will be a pilot project, all booths will not have these new machines. The election department, he added, has already requested the ECI to provide a fresh stock of regular EVMs for the state.There was demand for the paper-trail EVM's in the 2014 Lok Sabha election as well. Punjab Congress had demanded that the ECI allocates these for the "super sensitive" 11 - Bathinda (Punjab) constituency. The election had ECI placing an order of about 20,000 VVPAT machines, to be selectively used in different states on experimental basis. ECI had chosen Jadavpur Lok Sabha constituency in West Bengal for the launch of the machines.As the voter presses the EVM button, a paper slip will come out of the VVPAT attached to the EVM, exhibiting the name and symbol on which the vote has been cast.The last Lok Sabha elections were messed up at certain booths due to outdated electronic voter machines (EVMs) that baffled not just the staff on election duty with as many as 478 had to be replaced during polling on April 30, 2014, but also made the voters wait due to delays caused during replacement of the equipment. To begin with, around 150 machines that were found non-functional on first trials could have been kept out. A total of 33,000 EVMs were later pressed into action during polling in Punjab.To add to the problem, the number of candidates went beyond the figure of 15 in ten constituencies, necessitating the need for putting two EVMs. Each machine as 16 slots and the last one is reserved for none of the above (NOTA) option.Sources in the election department said nearly 8,000 EVMS were required after the candidatures were finalized and only 7,500 could be mobilized from other states. The authorities faced an EVM crunch and nearly 300 machines had to be replaced within the first few hours of polling. In the last assembly election in 2012, only around 100 EVMs had to be replaced as the stock provided that time was relatively new.What's Voter-verified paper audit trailIn the VVPAT system, when a vote is cast, a slip gets printed showing the name of the selected candidate, his poll symbol and the voter's serial numberThe receipt, once viewed, goes inside a container linked to the EVM and can only be accessed by the election officers in rarest of rare casesVoter can see printout but not take it out. This is only to verify that his vote was registered correctly. But the paper trail can come in handy in case of a recountIt allows voters to verify that their votes are cast as intended and can serve as an additional barrier to changing or destroying votesFor the 2014 general election, 13 lakh VVPAT machines at a cost of Rs 1,692 crore were usedThe system allows a voter to challenge his or her vote on basis of the paper receipt for the first time. As per a new rule, the booth presiding officer will have to record the dissent of the voter, which would have to be taken into account at time of counting
Gurgaon: Residents of DLF phases 1 to 3 have accused the MCG of dragging its feet on the issue of takeover and maintenance of their areas, even three months after chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar gave his nod to the transfer of Huda sectors and some private developer localities.A delegation of residents, led by local municipal councillor, met the town and country planning department's principal secretary P Raghavendra Rao in Chandigarh on Thursday and complained to him about the poor maintenance of their areas due to the confusion over civic transfer. Rao has ordered the MCG commissioner to hold a meeting with the stakeholders on June 15 to speed up the takeover process.Rama Rani, ward number 34 councillor, claimed since the CM's announcement on February 8 that areas coming under DLF phases 1 to 3 will be handed over to the MCG. the private developer has stopped offering the maintenance services."With every passing day, the state of essential services such as water supply, sewerage system, drainage and streetlights is going from bad to worse, and nobody from DLF or the MCG is willing to resolve the grievances of residents," she added.Residents said erratic water supply, daily outages and power fluctuations, dysfuntional streetlights and poorly maintained parks are adding to their woes. "Since storm water drains are not being cleaned, these areas might get flooded during the monsoon," TK Satheesan, a resident, said."Thefts and burglaries have become very frequent in various parts of DLF because of general lack of security . Our pleas always fall on deaf ears. There is no hope that our problems will be resolved in the near future," he added.Talking to TOI, Rao said while the government would like to take over the DLF areas tomorrow, this particular case demands serious deliberations. "The residents have been asked to give proposals so that if the MCG collects any amount over and above property tax, that extra amount can be used for providing non-mandatory services to them," he said."Right now, if MCG collects any money apart from property tax, the same goes into the government treasury. We have to look for an alternative and see if the RWA can themselves collect this extra amount and spend it on providing the services like round-the-clock security and other such services that are usually not provided by the municipal corporation," he said.A spokesperson for DLF said, "We have been wanting that MCG should take over the areas and we have requested them to do so many times. The delay is not from our end."The MCG, however, said the issue could be resolved if the residents are willing to pay extra than what they are paying as property tax. "At present, the DLF residents are paying around Rs 2.75 per square yard per month as maintenance charges to the private builder, but pay only Rs one rupee per square yard per year as property tax. They are unwilling to pay the same amount to MCG for maintaining their area. If they are willing to do so, then this issue can get resolved," Satyaprakash said.
RUDRAPUR: Two blocks of Udham Singh Nagar district, Jaspur and Kashipur, will be declared open defecation free on June 10, under the Swachh Bharat Mission of the central government. These two blocks will be the first in the state to achieve this status. Chief development officer of US Nagar, Dr Ashish Srivastava, claims that the entire district will be open defecation free by December.  Under the Centre's Swachh Bharat Mission, US Nagar has been given a target of constructing 73,016 toilets throughout the rural areas. The district has already built 34,035 toilets. Construction of the remaining toilets is underway in all seven blocks of the district.  According to Srivastava, Jaspur and Kashipur are expected to be declared open defecation free in June while work is on to ensure that Rudrapur, Bajpur, and Gadarpur block are also open defecation free by the month of October. Plans are afoot to declare the blocks of Sitarganj and Khatima also open defecation free by December.  Project manager of Sawajal Pariyojana, Bheem Singh, said, "The government gives Rs 12,000 for building of each toilet and the project is also generating employment since the construction is done under MNREGA."  Srivastava told TOI that work is on full swing and 16,732 toilets have to be bulit in Sitarganj and 5,186 have already been constructed. In Rudrapur, 2,773 toilets are to be constructed to match the target of 8,175 toilets. Gadarpur has built 3,693 toilets out of the required 8,519 toilets. In Khatima, 4,005 toilets have been built and 9,075 toilets are yet to be constructed. In Bajpur, 4,071 toilets out of 10,280 are complete.  Aakash Ahuja
Indore: Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) on Thursday said that they had cleaned up 80 per cent of drains in the city ahead of monsoon. Around 10 pokeland machines, 10 JCB machines and 30 dumper trucks had been deployed to clean the silt in the drains. "We have extensively used machines and labourers for the work and have completed more than 80 percent of our work," said Rajendra Rathore, head of IMC's SWM department. Rathore said that they have widened many drains but more work is required to be done. The major problem that IMC had faced in last few years is due to the poly bags that choke the drains. Officials said that they tried to tackle the problem by taking initiatives like door to door garbage collection. IMC had also taken action against some people who were caught throwing garbage in the drains. Many awareness programmes were also run by the civic body. "We cannot do this alone , we need the residents to cooperate. They should also understand that if they should not throw garbage in drains. It causes problem for them only," Rathore said. There is also threat of disease outbreak due to heavy rains and waterlogging. Officials of IMC said that they had stock s of medicines to be supplied when needed. Regular fogging would also be done during monsoon.
 Panaji: For all the talk of its demographic dividend, India's society is staring at its gravest crisis; the fact that more young Indians die at their own hands. India will be able to take advantage of its demographic dividend only if the country's youth are proud of the society they live in, professor at the London school of hygiene and tropical medicine Vikram Patel said.  "We must create a society that our youth are proud to be part of and where they are at home. At the moment all signs indicate that this isn't the case," Patel said while speaking at the Goa Management Association lecture series at a city-based resort.  Arguing that suicide numbers in India were under-reported, Patel said that researchers pegged the number of youth committing suicides closer to 1 lakh every year. The national crime records bureau indicates that the total number of suicides that occurred in the age group of 18 to 30 years was 44,870.  In his address Patel highlighted the growing gap between educated, liberal youth and the social norms they are confronted with. "This, to me, is the single biggest threat to youth in India. Youth find themselves colliding with a deeply conservative social world and a deeply intolerant social world," he said.  Patel went on to contend that for every suicide case, there are 20 other individuals attempting suicide. "The police form of reporting is likely to be full of holes. When we looked at the cases of 2014, we found that the number of suicide deaths was underreported by a third. Roughly, for every suicide death there are about 20 suicide attempts. This means that, in any given year, there are at least 20 lakh suicide attempts, a staggering amount," said the co-founder of the NGO Sangath.  Patel said that while suicide death rates for young men in India remains two times higher than richer countries, among young women the gap between female youth in India is 6.4. Put simply, a young Indian woman is six times more likely to kill herself compared to a young woman in higher income countries.  "The southern states have much higher suicide rates, these are states which have some of the best development indicators. 'Vikas' is happening in the same parts of the country where suicides are happening," Patel said.
Kanpur: The body of a 72-year-old man was found in a pool of blood on the roof of his house in Gwaltoli on Thursday. The police said Lalta Prasad Katheria, who had retired as a clerk from Ursula Horseman Hospital, used to live alone, while his sons stay separately. He was battered to death. The officers said they were questioning his family members and neighbours. Katheria's wife died a few years ago and his three sons, who are married, live separately. One son Umesh resides with his family in Barra. Other sons Amit and Arvind live with their families in Meerut. Umesh said that Amit had called his father a couple of days ago to inquire about his health. the officer.SHO Gwaltoli Arvind Kumar Singh said they were probing the case from all angles. "In the past, we have come across instances, where the murderer took away articles to make it appear to be a robbery case. We will probe the case from every angle," he said. An FIR has been lodged on a complaint lodged by Umesh, who suspected that his father has been murdered. A dog squad and a team of forensic experts were pressed into service.
Gurgaon: Hotel owners in Haryana have demanded luxury tax be reduced, to make up for huge losses suffered by the industry because of economic slowdown. Members of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Haryana (HRAH) claimed occupancy rates have dropped to 30%, despite a fall in average room rent (ARR).On Thursday, HRAH president Manbeer Choudhary and other members met Sumita Mishra, the principal secretary to Haryana tourism department, and demanded luxury tax on hotel rooms be reduced to 4% from 10%. He also said only new complaint cases should be dealt by the excise and taxation commissioner's office in Chandigarh, while routine cases should be handled by the deputy commissioner at the district level. This will reduce unnecessary paperwork and delays caused every year during renewal of licences. Speaking on the occasion, Choudhary said Haryana should ban 'ahatas' (restaurants next to liquor shops), and reduce bar licence fee for all hotels instead.Hotel owners are also demanding industry status for all tourism units, irrespective of investment level. Tourism was accorded industry status under the 2015 Haryana Industrial Policy. Units with investment over Rs 10 crore are now considered service sector, on a par with manufacturing units. "We've asked the principal secretary to amend the policy to include all tourism units, even those with less than Rs 10 crore investment," said Roop Sodhi, the HRAH (Gurgaon) director. The association demanded that all charges and incentives should be on a par with industry. All incentives, namely VAT remission, electricity duty exemption, levy of fixed charges on electricity, fixing of property tax slabs in all municipal corporations and others, should be based on level of tourism in developed cities.
PANAJI: Goa police has booked a person for allegedly trespassing and threatening the consul general of Portugal and its office staff at Portuguese consulate in Panaji.Police said that the incident took place on April 21 when Levino De Melo went to the Portuguese consulate for work. Police said that he was stopped by the security person. They also added that De Melo barged into the consulate and straight away went to meet consul general of Portugal and threatened him.Police said that when the consulate office staff intervened into the matter, he also threatened them. Consul general of Portugal had filed the complaint before director general of police (DGP) Muktesh Chander which was later transferred to Panaji police station.Panaji police registered the case under section 506 (criminal intimidation) and 447 (criminal trespass) and Police sub inspector Pritesh Govekar is investigating the case.
Chandigarh: Haryana Police on Thursday arrested one person in connection with the explosion in a private bus near Bhuna in Fatehabad on Tuesday and declared it was a case of accidental explosion. Police said that Mukesh Kumar of Jandali village had purchased sulphur and potash and kept their mixture in a plastic bottle. The material was meant to be used to scare away birds and animals from his fields through controlled explosions.While giving details, Haryana ADGP (law and order) Muhammad Akil said that the blast was an accident and there was no terror angle to it. He said that a team headed by Fatehabad ASP Ganga Ram was constituted to crack the case. It emerged during the investigations that Mukesh had purchased sulphur and potash and kept their mixture in a plastic bottle."Mukesh made a hole in the plastic bottle so as to prevent accumulation of gas. But after boarding the bus, Mukesh Kumar felt that the gas was emanating from the bottle and he opened it to examine it. Thereafter he kept it under his seat. There is possibility that the hole of plastic bottle got blocked, which resulted in accumulation of gas and the explosion occurred. However, the exact cause of the blast was still being investigated," said the ADGP.The officer said that Mukesh had been arrested and would be produced in the court. With a view to prevent the re-occurrence of such incidents, he said that detailed instructions have been issued to all police stations in the state.The police have been directed to maintain complete record of all those involved in the sale of potash and sulphur. Apart from this, regular inspection should be carried out to see the quantity of stock sold by the shopkeepers, he added.Police also asked all shopkeepers to install CCTV cameras in their shops and maintain complete record of those who purchase such chemicals from them.Two persons had sustained burn injuries and ten others received minor injuries on Tuesday morning in a low intensity blast inside a moving private bus near Bhuna town of Fatehabad district. The explosion happened in the private bus bearing registration number HR62-8372 was four km away from Bhuna town. The bus was going from Jakhal to Fatehabad and carrying around 50 passengers at that time.Window panes of the middle section of the private bus (HR 62- 8372)have been damaged although the driver managed to bring the bus to a halt immediately. Bhagirath, 45, and his wife Rajbala, 40, have suffered minor burn injuries.
   MARGAO: A 38-year-old widower was done to death by his paramour on Wednesday night at Chovtho, Davondem, Margao. Acting swiftly, Margao police on Thursday arrested   Rammy Chauvan , 30, on charges of murdering   Somana Hanumanta Naik , who assumed the name 'Melwyn' after he married a Christian woman.  Police sources said that Naik was residing with Chauvan and her two children in a hut located in the fields at Davondem for the last four years. On Thursday morning, the police were informed about a body lying in the hut, following which the Margao town police recovered the body and began investigations. Police sources said that Chauvan, who initially feigned ignorance about Naik's murder, later broke down upon sustained police interrogation and admitted to the crime. The accused was arrested under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). "Though the deceased and the accused were staying together for the last four years, they were not on good terms and frequently quarreled. Naik often used to often abuse and beat up Chauvan in a bout of drunken stupor. On Wednesday night, Naik came home heavily drunk and had an altercation with Chauvan after which he fell asleep," Margao town PI   C L Patil told reporters. Perhaps finding it too much to bear with Naik's abusive behavior, Chauvan decided to get rid of her partner. Finding him asleep, Naik lifted a laterite stone she found nearby and dropped it right on Naik's face, thereby severely injuring his nose. "Being in an inebriated state, Chauvan was left with hardly any chance to save himself," Patil said. A resident of Seraulim, Naik was working in a bar at Fatorda. A father of two, Naik started staying with Chauvan, a widow, after his wife's death, alongwith her two kids. Both were natives of Hubli, Karnataka.
CHENNAI: A teacher from Viluppuram district was suspended on Thursday after she burned her primary school students with camphor fire as a punishment for irregular attendance and poor academic performance.      The incident happened on Thursday morning in Paali Panchayath primary school near Ulundurpet. Vaijayanthi Mala, a 4th standard teacher, called 13 of her students and burned their feet.      The students were admitted to the Ulundurpettai government hospital on Friday morning for treatment. They had blisters on their feet.      After conducting an investigation, Vilupuram district Chief Education Officer immediately suspended the teacher and ordered a further investigation by the Education Department.      Read this story in Tamil      (Content courtesy: Tamil Samayam)
Jassia (Rohtak): BSP supremo Mayawati's support for reservation to Jats ahead of the polls in Uttar Pradesh has created bit of goodwill for Dalits among Jat agitators in Haryana and this may signal a new caste-political equation in both the states.Jat leaders claim that the combined strength of Jats, Jat Sikhs and Muslim Jats plays a deciding role in 125 of 403 constituencies in the UP legislative assembly. The Jat agitators sitting on a dharna at Jassia village of Rohtak district have even written a letter to Mayawati offering her support in the time of need. Sources say the agitators in a village of Kaithal district even raised slogans like "Mayawati Zindabad" during the dharna.There have been instances of conflicts between Jats and Dalits in the past despite dependence on each other in an agrarian society as scheduled castes workers find jobs as farm hands in the fields owned by Jats. Tara Chand, a 70 year-old Dalit, along with his physically-challenged daughter Suman, 18, were killed during an attack on their house by a group of Jats in Mirchpur village of Hisar district in 2010.But aggression of a few non-Jat communities against the reservation agitators, including their slogan of brotherhood of 35 biradaris (communities) against Jats, is probably fueling talks of the new Jat-Dalit alliance. The social structure of Haryana is known for brotherhood of 36 biradaris.The Jat leaders even called SC community members as their brothers at the dharna venue. What's more, the Jat leaders appeared happy when a Valmiki leader and vice-president of Rohtak Zila Parishad Rajender Kumar reached the dharna venue on Tuesday. "I am here with a message of harmony among all communities," Kumar told TOI.AIJASS president Yashpal Malik says, "People from Dalit communities are attending our dharnas in large numbers as they have reservation under a separate category." Malik claimed that people from OBC and general categories also attend their dharnas. "We believe in social alliance, not in any political alliance," he adds."If Jats and Dalits join hands, then it may become a new strength in Haryana," says a dalit leader from Haryana, Devi Dass. The Jats consist 25% of the population while the share of Dalit population is about 20% in the state.According to Dass, there has been closeness between Jats and Chamars in Haryana since long. "This is first time when there is hope that elephant (BSP) may get stronger in Haryana," says Dass.The agitators sitting on dharna at Jassia have written to Mayawati that "the Jat community will always remember her support". "Madam, you are not only leader of Dalits but the entire working class," they mentioned in the letter.Meanwhile, with the possibility of emergence of new combination, BSP may not only hope for gains in UP but also hope revival of the party's strength in Haryana. BSP state president Naresh Saran admit that the vote share of the party had dipped to just about 5% in Haryana in 2014 LS polls in comparison to 2009 LS polls when it was voted more than 15% votes.However, Saran stresses that their party believed in unity of the society beyond the caste lines and wanted to take along all communities. At present, BSP has one MLA, Tek Chand from Prithla in Faridabad, in the 90 member House.
Jaisalmer: The recent announcement by the Centre to change the existing citizenship laws for displaced Hindus has come as a relief for those seeking shelter in India. The Union home ministry, with the help of state governments, is organizing camps for displaced Pak-Hindus, who were forced to flee their country. Eighteen districts in 7 states, including Rajasthan, have been identified to give Indian citizenship to those Pak-Hindus, who have been living in India for at least 7 years. Camps in the state will be organized in Jodhpur, Jaipur and Jaisalmer on July 11-12, July 18 and July 25, respectively, to complete the formalities. The camps will kickstart from June 13 in Mumbai and Thane districts (Maharashtra), where they will be held till June 16. Pune will see one such camp between July 11 and 15.
Panaji, June 10 (IANS) Goa Tourism and State Children's Commission for Protection of Child Rights have come up with extensive campaigns to discourage tourists in the state from buying products and services involving child labour.   "This year, we are starting an awareness campaign on the coastal belt about child labour. So many children are involved in selling imitation jewellery, photos, sugar cane juice, peanuts etc," chairperson of Goa State Children Commission Sushma Kirtani told IANS on Thursday.   Kirtani said the commission had conducted several inspections along the beaches to take stock of the extent of child labour.   The campaign would start during the upcoming tourist season and aimed at discouraging tourists from abetting child labour, especially along the tourism-centric coastal areas, Kirtani said.   The 2011 census estimates there are around 10,000 children between the ages of five and 17 who are employed in various capacities in the state.   The coastal belt which attracts around four million tourists in the state, accounts for a chunk of child workforce which engages in seasonal chores like working at beach shacks, food and trinket-stalls etc.   Goa's tourism season conventionally begins in October, once the monsoon recedes and ends in March.   According to Tourism Minister Dilip Parulekar, his ministry was trying to supplement the existing 30-member strong Tourism Security Force by 120 personnel to curb the menace.   "We will complete the process (of recruitment) in the next few months ... They will work under the tourism ministry and after that we will completely be able to control the practice of child labour," Parulekar said.   --IANS   maya/py/
Udaipur: A daily wager in Rajasthan's Dungarpur sold one of his goats and mortgaged his wife's silver anklet to raise Rs 9,000 for building a toilet.Kantilal Roat did so after some social workers campaigning as part of the Swachh Bharat scheme sensitized his family about the importance of hygiene and risks of open defecation. The workers told Roat he would be getting a Rs 12,000 assistance if he agreed to build a toilet.Roat started constructing the toilet after getting first two instalments of Rs 8,000.But the money was exhausted while the construction was still underway, forcing Roat to sell one of his seven goats besides mortgaging his wife Gauri's anklets. "The goat fetched me Rs 5,000 while we got Rs 4,000 against the anklet said Roat."The goat fetched me Rs 5,000 while we got Rs 4,000 against the anklet, which my wife had received as gift from her parents at the time of our wedding," said Roat, who lives in a small hut along with his extended family.His mother, Lali Bai, said she understands the hardships her two daughters-inlaw have faced while defecating in the open. "Even if it meant to mortgage our hut, I would have willingly done so for their honour and dignity.''Dungarpur Municipal Corporation chairman K K Gupta felicitated the family. "At a time when it is not easy to convince even educated and urban masses on sanitation issues, Kantilal and his wife have done a commendable work and deserve felicitation," Gupta said.He released the remaining assistance for the family besides rewarding it Rs 4,000 to get the anklet back.
Panchkula: A Haryana Indian Forest Service officer Ajay Kadian jumped to death from the fifth floor of a hotel in Sector 5, Panchkula, at 5.30pm on Thursday, according to police. Kadian was the Chief conservator of forest, North Circle, Haryana, based in the department's headquarters in Sector 6. Kadian came to the hotel in his car and headed to the fifth floor of the hotel, that also has a swimming pool. He was taken to Panchkula's Sector-6 General Hospital and declared "brought dead".Kadian's wife Anita is a chief scientist at the forensic science laboratory in Madhuban.He is survived by a son, an engineering student, and a daughter, who is enrolled in a law course.Sector-5 police station SHO Lalit Kumar, said, "We have not recovered any suicide note, but are recording the statements of his family members."
Gurgaon: The 22-year-old woman, who was allegedly raped by two medical college employees while she was undergoing treatment for depression, recorded her statement in a local court in Nuh on Thursday.Police could not nab the security guard and the ward boy even four days after they allegedly committed the brutal act. Cops conducted raids at various places, including Nalhar village, the hometown of main accused Azharuddin. The incident happened in SHKM Government Medical College in Mewat, the Haryana district adjoining Gurgaon.According to her complaint, an FIR was registered at the women police station in Mewat under Sections 376 (rape) and 120b (criminal conspiracy) against the duo, who are working as contractual staffers at the medical college hospital. Police, meanwhile, said they could not identify the security guard, who allegedly helped Azharuddin gag the woman before raping her."We went to raid the ward boy's residence on Thursday, but it was locked. We will soon conduct raids at his relatives' places. We hope he will be arrested soon," said Shakuntala, DSP, Mewat.
Hubballi: There will be no power supply to the following areas from 10 am to 4pm on Friday due to urgent repair and maintenance work: Rajajinagar, Vishveshwarnagar, Udaynagar, Azad Colony, Gopankoppa, Teachers Colony, Bengeri, Devangpeth, Goldenpark, Silver Park, Mayur Estate, Magadi Layout, Khadi Gramodyog, Rajendra Prasad Colony, Shiva Colony, Kadasiddeshwar Colony, Sulla Road, Ramesh Bhavan, Madhura Park, Bhavaninagar, Chandranathnagar, Revenue Colony, Journalists Colony, Forest Colony, Manoj Park, Talwar Oni, Badaminagar, Goldnext, Apartment, Golden Enclave, Sadhana Samarth Apartment, Gangotri Avenue, Vijaya Residency, Sriram Apartment, Bhavani Apartment, and surrounding areas.
Colva: District sessions court on Thursday granted conditional bail to government clerk Julius S J Joanes, who was nabbed by anti-corruption branch (ACB) sleuths for allegedly accepting a bribe.  ACB officials stated that on June 3, an FIR was registered under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 against the accused who works as an upper division clerk in the office of the civil registrar-cum-sub-registrar at Canacona for demanding bribe of    1,700 from a complainant for correction of her name in the official books.  After the FIR was filed, a trap was laid and the accused was caught. He was placed under arrest and remanded to five days' police custody. The accused immediately moved a bail plea on June 4. His plea was granted on furnishing a bond of    10,000 and a surety of a like amount.
Panaji, June 10 (IANS) Goa PWD minister Sudin Dhavalikar on Friday reiterated his demand for the shifting of the Portuguese consulate in Panaji to Delhi to "prevent Goans from opting for dual citizenship".      "I reiterate my demand for shifting of the Portuguese consulate to Delhi," Dhavalikar told reporters at the secretariat here.      On June 7, Goa's freedom fighters sought the closure of the consulate that processes the documents of Goan natives desirous of Portugal's citizenship under a unique nationality law.      "Portugal is still trying to interfere in the internal affairs of Goa and India. We want punishment for Goans who opt for Portuguese citizenship. Dual citizenship is a threat to the state's security," freedom fighter and noted poet Naguesh Karmali said.      Goa was one of the oldest colonies of Portugal before its liberation by the Indian Army in 1961. All Goan natives were thereafter granted Indian citizenship via a notification.      However, the departing Portuguese allowed residents of Goa during its rule to get their birth registered in Portugal and thus avail of citizenship and Portuguese travel identity documents. The privilege was later extended to two more generations of Goans.      Nearly two lakh Goans have so far opted for Portuguese citizenship, retaining their Indian citizenship at the same time.      The home ministry has now promised to set up an authority in Goa soon to examine the citizenship issue on a case-by-case basis.      --IANS      maya/tsb/bg
Barnala: The local Safai Sewak (sanitation workers) Union president Raju ended his life by jumping before a train on Thursday, following which his colleagues vandalized the office of the Barnala municipal council executive officer (EO) Shakti Kaushal, and assaulted him. Kaushal was taken to a private hospital with injuries on his shoulders and legs. He said: "I had nothing to do with the incident. The workers came to me and asked about the inspector. As I feigned ignorance about his whereabouts, the workers manhandled me and hit me on my shoulders and legs."The 'safai sewaks' accused an inspector and other officials of the Barnala MC of harassing Raju by alleging he had taken money while reaching a compromise in a dispute with the proprietors of a beauty parlour last month. The beauty parlour owners were accused of using abusing language against sanitation workers over removal of hoardings on May 19. Angry 'safai sewaks' had thrown garbage in front of the parlour.On Thursday, Raju jumped before a train near SD College railway crossing. He was badly injured and rushed to Patiala for treatment, but succumbed to his injuries on the way. Raju's son Akash said: "An MC inspector and some other officials were harassing my father and accusing him of taking money for arriving at a compromise with a salon owner, while keeping workers in the dark. My father was under depression because of that, and on Thursday, he ended his life. The police need to take action against persons guilty of harassing my father."Government Railway Police (GRP) head constables Jagtar Singh and Karamjit Singh said: "A piece of paper was recovered from Raju's pocket, wherein some names were written of those harassing him. A case under abetment to suicide charges is being registered against the persons named in the slip." Barnala deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Palwinder Singh Cheema said: "No complaint has been filed so far by MC officials for vandalization of their office or beating up the EO. Action will be taken on getting the complaint."
Bhubaneswar: A day before the arrival of Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari to Odisha, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Thursday said overbridge constructed at Samjajpur level crossing near Puri was highly unsafe."The ROB was partly opened in view of the Nabakalebara festival last year. A six-metre concrete slab of the overbridge has tilted to one side. This may jeopardize the safety of commuters. We have requested the Puri district administration to stop mobility of vehicles and allow us to repair it," said an NHAI officer.Collector (Puri) Aravinda Agarwal admitted that the overbridge was unsafe. "I held an emergency meeting with the NHAI in Puri and asked them to immediately repair it," Agarwal said.Puri MLA and chairman of Nabakalebara infrastructure supervision committee Maheswar Mohanty came down heavily on the substandard work by the NHAI. "There should be a thorough probe into the construction of the overbridge, which is yet to be completed. At present, only one side of the bridge is being used," Mohanty told mediapersons.NHAI authorities said they need at least 10 days to repair the overbridge. "We plan to start the repair work from June 20. We will use a jack to lift the slab. The pillars are fine. There is no need to demolish any portion of the overbridge for the repair work," the NHAI officer said.
INDORE: In a case of medical negligence and laidback approach, two city-based radiologists and a private hospital have been asked to pay Rs 15 lakh as compensation to the parents of a child, who was born without her left hand and a kidney. After almost six years of tedious legal proceedings, the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCRDC) passed the verdict that the radiologists were negligent while analysing growth of the foetus during pregnancy through ultrasonography (USG) and slapped a penalty on the doctors.In January 2009, Anju Dutt was advised to undergo ultrasonography in which Dr Saluja, not finding any abnormality, declared the baby normal stating that its foetal spine, trunk and limbs were normal. In another USG report, Dr Soni had also declared the baby normal thus, the treating doctors continued with regular treatment and check-ups.In May 2009, Dutt gave birth to a female baby which was not fully developed. The foetal weight of the baby was 1500 gm only. The then treating doctor expressed that on account of wrong USG reports, no proper treatment was given to the mother and child before birth, hence, the child did not develop fully.The doctors expressed the need for surgery in future for her neck and spine because of the fused spinal cord and also that the child may have increased chances of paralysis.
Hubballi: The South Western Railway Mazdoor Union (SWRMU) on Thursday staged a protest rally before handing over a strike notice to the general manager, South Western Railway. The notice is related to the nationwide indefinite strike scheduled to start at 6am on July 11. Various railway unions have called the strike demanding fulfillment of their various demands. Thousands of employees, who raised slogans against the Union government, participated in the rally led by SWRMU general secretary A M D'Cruz. The rally was taken out from the SWRMU office to the GM's office. Addressing the protesters, D'Cruz said that the 7th Pay Commission submitted its report in 2015, but the government has unnecessarily delayed implementing the recommendations. D'Cruz opposed FDI in railways and demanded filling up of vacant posts. He said that the jobs of casual and contract workers should be regularized. Union leaders R R Naik, V E Charkhani, S Somashekar, D Rangaswamy, S F Mallad, Arthur Fernandez and D Babu were present.
Coimbatore: Burglars appear to have a free run in the city with a house being burgled every other day. The city witnessed its fifth burglary in the past 10 days on Wednesday, taking the total quantum of looted jewellery to 148 sovereigns and 2.5lakh in cash. The latest burglary was reported from Maniyakaranpalayam near Ganapathy where a gang looted 18 sovereigns of gold jewellery. The city police, who have formed exclusive teams to deal with burglary incidents, have not cracked any of these cases so far. Police admit that they themselves were stumped by these burglaries which vary in modus operandi indicating that several gangs were involved. Police said A Aravindh, 31 from Nehru Nagar at Maniyakaranpalayam had locked his house on Wednesday morning to take his mother to a private hospital. Around 11.30pm when he returned home, the rear door was broken open and valuables missing.He alerted the Saravanampatti police (crime) inspector R Geetha who rushed to the spot with her team. "Aravindh got married six months ago and left for Dubai to work in a private company. He returned to Coimbatore two weeks ago,'' said a police officer who suspected the burglars may have been aware that Aravindh had returned home with cash ."We have gathered CCTV footage from cameras in the localities. Two suspects were seen in the footage and our special team is working to nab the duo,'' said city police commissioner A Amalraj. Police personnel blamed shortage of staff for their inability to prevent incidents of burglary. "Given the vast area covered by the Saravanampatti police station there should be at least 30 personnel but we have only 10. Even the existing personnel are deputed from other stations on duty,'' said a police officer. The scenario is similar in Singanallur and Peelamedu police stations where the frequency of crime is rising. "We will intensify patrolling to prevent crimes," said Amalraj.
Guwahati: Noted author and naturalist Anwaruddin Chowdhury on Thursday said habitat destruction and poaching posed the biggest threats to mammals in the country, especially in the northeast, and sought legal protection for the animals."We have lost many mammal species in the country, including the cheetah, the Javan and Sumatran rhinoceros, and banteng, over the last century. This is very unfortunate. It is high time that serious conservation measures are taken," said Chowdhury, author of several books on wildlife, including The Mammals of India.De-forestation, encroachment of forest land, jhum cultivation, and monoculture forest plantations were some of the other threats to mammals listed by Chowdhury."Encroachments of reserved forests is a serious issue, as is killing of animals for meat in the northeast, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh," said Chowdhury, who is widely respected for his work as an ornithologist, mammalogist, artist, civil servant, photographer and author.
PANAJI: Rajya Sabha MP Shantaram Naik on Friday said that union minister of state for home affairs Kiren Rijiju's proposal to create a central authority to look into the contentious issue of dual citizenship was a plan to disenfranchise scores of Goans before the 2017 state assembly elections.        "The proposal of a central authority to look into the Portuguese nationality issue is bad. The centre has a plan, a conspiracy to disenfranchise a substantial number of voters in Goa," Naik said.        Rijiju during a visit to the state said that the central government would notify an authority in Goa to decide the contentious issue of dual citizenship. A large number of Goans, especially those born before 1961, are facing legal hurdles given that their birth was registered under the Portuguese rule in the coastal state, according them the status of Portuguese nationals.        However, a few months after the liberation of Goa, the then Central government through a notification under the Citizenship Act 1955 automatically accorded Indian citizenship to every person who or either of whose parents or any of whose grandparents was born before Dec 20, 1961, in Goa, Daman and Diu, which were also Portuguese colonies.        Naik said that 26,000 names of Goans had already been deleted from the voters list while another 66,000 names faced removal once the central authority was formed in Goa.
Coimbatore: The water level in Siruvani dam on Thursdaywent up to 35cm after catchment areas of the reservoir received bountiful rain following the onset of monsoon in Kerala. The improved water level in Siruvani has raised the hopes of city's water managers to beat the water shortage through the summer months. Though the city requires 91 million litres per day (MLD) from Siruvani dam to supplement water supply from Pillur, Bhavani and Aliyar, only 51MLD could be tapped over the past few days as the reservoir touched dead storage level."Catchment areas of Siruvani, located mostly in Kerala, have received 98mm rain on Wednesday. At a time when we are tapping the dead storage in the dam, this has come as a huge relief,'' said a senior corporation engineer.However, the civic authorities have decided to put on hold plans to increase water released from Siruvani for now. "Since we have been using water from the dead storage for the past one week, we want the water level to increase by at least 200cm for us to reach a comfort zone," he said.Authorities at Siruvani Dam have been releasing only around 50 MLD of water since the summer began in March, ensuring they tap only 5cm of water a day. The dam has a total storage capacity of 50ft or 15.10m. According to the agreement with the Tamil Nadu Water and Drainage Board (TWAD), the civic body is supposed to be able to withdraw 91 to 98MLD of water from Siruvani every day. Water from this dam is supplied to a major portion of west and central Coimbatore. "Though water levels have gone up, we will continue supplying only 50MLD till the water level in the dam touches 2m," said the engineer.Civic authorities as well as weather experts hope the water level would rise by 2m within a week. "Looking at the monsoon prediction, which foresees heavy rainfall in Kerala, we should see the water level increasing continuously," said an official.Though weather experts have predicted a good monsoon, they said reports of the low pressure were not confirmed. "We are expecting good rain for the next four days but mainly along the coastal areas," said the former deputy director general of meteorology and head of the Chennai regional meteorological centre Y E A Raj. "For it to reach the interior areas, it will take another four to five days," he said.
JAMSHEDPUR: Railway minister Suresh Prabhakar Prabhu on Thursday inaugurates the Manoharpur-Posiata stretch of the third railway line being laid from Howrah to Mumbai through video conferencing from Kolkata. Prabhu lauded SER zonal officials and project executing agencies for completing construction on time. RITES Ltd, a public sector undertaking specializing in engineering consultancy and Railway Vikas Nigam Ltd (RVNL) completed the project in three years.The 11.6-km stretch on the third railway line, which cost Rs 64.45 crore, is part of the ambitious 2,000-km Mumbai-Howrah third line project being carried out in phases. "Presently, work on the third line connecting Kharagpur to Jharsuguda (through Tatanagar) is underway and is expected to be completed in the next three years," said senior commercial divisional manager of Chakradharpur division, Satyam Prakash.The third rail line stretch - from Dongaposi to Raj Kharswan (35km), Raj Kharswan to Mahalimurum (10km) and Mahalimurum to Sini (20k) - has already been laid. "Work on the Manoharpur Rourkela stretch is underway," SDCM said. The third rail line project commissioned in 2013 is aimed at streamlining rail traffic on the Howrah-Mumbai route."With the increase in freight activity and growing passenger strength along the Howrah-Mumbai line, the third railway line project was a necessity," said a senior traffic rail official. Initially, goods trains will ply on the Posiata-Manoharpur stretch of the third line and MEMU trains will also ply on the new rail line."The Posiata-Manoharpur will ensure wagon trains ply on time as traffic congestion will be less," said a divisional rail official. Presently, over 70 passenger trains, including mail, express, superfast and freight trains run daily in the Chakradharpur division.
Davanagere: As many as 18 women beggars, including a six- year old girl, were rescued and sent to a rehabilitation centre here on Thursday. Following complaints of beggar's menace at traffic junctions and other public places in the city, a team of officials from various departments carried a drive near the bus stand, railway station and temples and rescued 18 beggars. However, many beggars managed to escape as they got wind of the drive. The staff of the women and child welfare department, in association with the social welfare department and District Beggars Rehabilitation Center, conducted the drive.
Berhampur: Chhatrapur-based contractor Sabyasachi Panda on Thursday said he had transferred Rs 1 lakh to BJD's bank account just a day before the first phase elections which covered Ganjam district as well."I like BJD and its leader Naveen Patnaik. So I donated some money to the party. The money was transferred on April 9 2014," Panda said. He denied giving money to the ruling party under duress. Panda had on Wednesday said his bank account claimed to be that of Maoist leader Sabyasachi Panda was not true and that BJD did not transfer any money to that account as alleged by former union minister and Puri MP Braja Kishore Tripathy.Panda said he did not disclose this on Wednesday as no one queried him about it. "I have no other association with the BJD nor do I attend the party activities," he said.He refused to share the source from where he had got the BJD's bank account number.
Alwar: Police on Thursday demolished illegal stone crushing units at three villages under Tijara police station and seized equipment worth lakhs of rupees. Police have also registered cases against four crushing unit operators. A team led by ADM Tijara Suresh Yadav, additional police superintendent Bhiwadi Manoj Kumar and two DSPs and 8 SHOs and officials of the forest department and hundreds of police personnel were involved in the operation. The operation had to be carried out covering 40 km through Haryana as there was no road connectivity to reach the villages through Rajasthan.The team reached the hills under Baloj village and demolished three stone crushing units. The team then reached Gawalda Kahrani and demolished many crushers there and cases were registered against crushing unit owners including Jasbir, former sarpanch of Kaharani village Asina, Akhtar and Rustam.
 COLVA: The district sessions court on Thursday granted conditional bail to Abhijit  Korgaonkar , one of the accused in the     double murder  case in Mangor , Vasco , last year.  The court directed his release on furnishing a bond of 20,000 and a surety in like amount. Abhijit has spent almost one-and-half year in custody. The court has ordered him not to interfere or influence witnesses in the case.  The case, in brief, is that on the intervening night of January 30-31, 2015, the accused   Pratima Naik  allegedly murdered her mother-in-law Usha Naik and her younger sister-in-law Neha Naik, while they were sleeping in a flat.  The charges against Korgaonkar is that he had knowledge of Pratima's plan. The applicant had provided a mobile and a SIM card to the main accused 15 days earlier
 PANAJI: With cows grazing on grass laced with toxins, plastic bags, and the like,   milk has become more dangerous than modern medicine, feels spiritual leader Yogi Ashwini of the   Dhyan Foundation .  "In the cities, cows often end up chewing plastic bags, hospital waste from garbage bags and other kind of waste. All this goes straight into the meat and milk of the animal. In such a situation, how would it be healthy for us?" he said, at a media briefing here on Thursday. He also spoke about harmful effects of drinking milk from cows that have been injected with oxytocin hormone. "Milk from such cows causes more harm than good and alters estrogen levels in women who consume it. The hormonal chaos gradually leads to ovarian cancer," he said. Asked how people could avoid consuming milk containing such toxins,   Yogi Ashwini said it was best to drink milk obtained from a cow of indigenous breed. He also advised procuring the milk directing from a gaushala, as opposed to buying packaged alternatives. "It is best to go to a gaushala. The milk that comes from them is indeed healthy, and not poisonous," he said. He also opposed drinking the milk of cows whose calves had been prematurely weaned off, saying, "The cow suffers an emotional trauma when the calf is taken awaybefore time. This increases the acidity of the milk." The Dhyan Foundation head believes the human body should be more alkaline than acidic in its composition, and cautioned against consumoption of foods like red meats and paneer that are acidic in nature. He urged people to maintain a positive frame of mind, exercise regularly and perform specific asanas to boost the secretion of necessary hormones in the body.
Kanpur: Three people from the bride's family were injured after members of groom's family allegedly attacked them when they protested over 'Nagin' song played at a marriage procession in Kannauj district on Wednesday night. Marriage of Seema, a native of Zindapurwa in Kannauj, was to be solemnised with Sudheesh, a native of Dibiyapur in Auraiya district on Wednesday.Over a dozen people belonging to the groom's side attacked the people from bride's family, when the latter objected to 'Nagin' song being played repeatedly by the band party during the marriage procession, the Kotwali police station incharge said.The father of bride, who refused to marry his daughter, approached the police but the matter was solved amicably, with both the sides reaching a compromise, the police added."Three people, including the bride's uncles Rajendra and Chhotey Lal, besides her cousin Adarsh have been admitted to district hospital. Rajendra was shifted to Kanpur," he said.The marriage was solemnised after both the sides resolved the matter.
DEHRADUN: The Char Dham Yatra, which saw a dip in the number of pilgrims after 2013 flash floods, has made a new record this year with Kedarnath registering a footfall of two lakh devotees in the first 29 days of the yatra.  A senior tourism official, Satish Bahuguna, said, "The pilgrim turnout in the first 29 days of the yatra has never been this high since the flash floods hit the state in 2013. We are hoping that the turnout would set new records this year."  The pilgrim turnout in the first month of the yatra recorded in Kedarnath in 2015 was only 38,405. The number stood at 14,502 in 2014.  The high turnout this year has brought smiles on the faces of hoteliers, cab operators, and shopkeepers as the business has picked up since the yatra commenced on May 9.  Tourism officials are also keeping their fingers crossed and hoping that the monsoon does not play spoilsport.  Chief executive officer of Badri-Kedar Committee, B D Singh, said, "The Char Dham yatra which took a hit after the flash floods disaster is finally back on track. This is a big relief for the entire state."  Singh was hopeful that if the yatra continued to record high turnout then it could surpass the footfall registered in 2012, a year before the flash floods, when 10 lakh pilgrims visited Badrinath and seven lakh visited Kedarnath.  Bahuguna attributed the increased turnout to improved infrastructure facilities and chopper services to Kedarnath.
DEHRADUN: In a major relief to the over 1.85 lakh disabled persons of Uttarakhand, the social welfare department is starting an initiative for creating an environment suitable for them. For the first time, the social welfare department will be allocating funds so that all government buildings will be modified to make them accessible to the disabled.   The initiative is being implemented after a national-level meeting by the Union social welfare ministry in Delhi recently, where all the states were directed to improve facilities and funds for the disabled.   "At the meeting, the ministry laid stress on creation of an environment which is friendly and responsive to the needs of the disabled. We have started the initiative so that at least the entry and exit of public buildings are convenient for the disabled," said Vishnu Dhanik, director, state social welfare department.  "Special ramps, wheelchairs and provisions for disabled-friendly washrooms will be a part of the initiative," he added.  In the stage one, all government hospitals, starting from district hospitals, combine and base hospitals, community health centres to primary health centres, collectorates and Vikas Bhawans of all 13 districts will be made disabled-friendly. Initially, the office of the Disabled Persons' Council in the state capital, the district hospital in Pithoragarh and Vikas Bhawan in Udham Singh Nagar will be modified.  The first instalment of Rs 32 lakh has been provided to these three offices in March this year and very soon other districts from where request for funds have come will be facilitated by the department.  The department will also shortly direct all public as well as private schools of Uttarakhand to create basic facilities for disabled children.
Belagavi: Widows and family members of debt-ridden farmers staged a protest before the deputy commissioner's office on Monday demanding speedy disbursal of compensation and other benefits promised by the government. Led by Bharatiya Krishik Samaj, families which have lost their bread winners staged a dharna.  They alleged that the officials are delaying processing their relief claims. The state government has increased the compensation to be given to the families of deceased farmers from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh besides promising to increase the monthly pension from Rs 500 to Rs 2,000. So far, only 58 farmers' families have received compensation in the district. While 9 claims have been rejected on the ground that these farmers had borrowed money for non-agriculture purpose, in 19 cases, the authorities are waiting for the forensic reports. Another eight cases are in the process of documentation. "Despite an instruction by the state government for speedy disposal of claims with regard to farmer suicides and also modifying the rule, the farmers' families in the district are waiting for compensation for the past one year,'' alleged Sidagouda Modagi, president, Bharatiya Krishik Samaj.Geeta Annugowda Patil said, though her husband Annugowda Siddappa Patil committed suicide in December 2015, she has not received any compensation yet. She has also not been sanctioned monthly pension as assured by the government. Some family members even alleged that bank authorities have been deducting the loan amount from the compensation despite the government order against this.
Dehradun: The Char Dham Yatra, which saw a dip in the number of pilgrims after 2013 flash floods, has made a record of sorts this year with Kedarnath registering a footfall of two lakh devotees in the first 29 days of the yatra.  A senior tourism official, Satish Bahuguna, said, "The pilgrim turnout in the first 29 days of the yatra has never been this high since the flash floods hit the state in 2013. We are hoping that the turnout would set new records this year."  The pilgrim turnout in the first month of the yatra recorded in Kedarnath in 2015 was only 38,405. The number stood at 14,502 in 2014.  The high turnout this year has brought smiles on the faces of hoteliers, cab operators, and shopkeepers as the business has picked up since the yatra commenced on May 9.  Tourism officials are also keeping their fingers crossed and hoping that the monsoon does not play spoilsport.  Chief executive officer of Badri-Kedar Committee, B D Singh, said, "The Char Dham yatra which took a hit after the flash floods disaster is finally back on track. This is a big relief for the entire state."  Singh was hopeful that if the yatra continued to record high turnout then it could surpass the footfall registered in 2012, a year before the flash floods, when 10 lakh pilgrims visited Badrinath and seven lakh visited Kedarnath.  Bahuguna attributed the increased turnout to improved infrastructure facilities and chopper services to Kedarnath.
ROORKEE: BJP MLA Kunwar Pranav Singh Champion was on Thursday prevented from reaching Landhaura to organize a mahapanchayat in the aftermath of the communal clashes which took place in the Roorkee town on June 1. A bid by his supporters to hold the meeting across the state border in Uttar Pradesh was also prevented by police from that state.  The MLA's uncle is one of the accused in the events, including desecration of a holy book, at Landhaura which led to communal clashes in which more than 40 people were injured, leading to section 144 of the CrPC being imposed on the area. Singh had then announced that a mahapanchayat would be held there on Thursday, claiming that more than a lakh people would be attending.  The mahapanchayat was to be held at Gannouli village on laksar-Goverdhanpur road in Khanpur region, from where Singh is MLA. Since the administration had forbidden assembly of more than five persons in the restive area, when the MLA's supporters arrived at Gannouli village to pitch tents for the meeting, the apolice dispersed them and seized the material.  "No mahapanchayat was organized in our region on Thursday," said Laksar sub-divisional magistrate Kishan Singh, talking to TOI.  The MLA's supporters then reportedly made an attempt to hold the meeting across the state border in UP. According to UP police officials, some of Singh's men had gathered at Sherpur village near the border, but were prevented from setting up the meeting. "We dispersed them in a peaceful manner in order to prevent any deterioration in law and order," said Bhanu Pratap Singh, in-charge of Purkazi police station in UP, talking to TOI.  MLA Singh remained unavailable for comments in the aftermath of Thursday's events. Meanwhile, controversial Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) leader Sadhvi Prachi, who was going to participate in the mayapanchayat was also prevented from reaching the area. "We did not take her into custody in Haridwar but informed her that since section 144 has been imposed, she cannot go to the area with a group of people. After this she dropped the idea," said Rajeev Swaroop, senior superintendent of police, Haridwar, talking to TOI.
NAINITAL: Ramgarh block in Nainital has become the first block in the state to be announced open defecation free. After toilets were built in 8,434 houses under the Swachh Bharat Mission, all homes in Ramgarh now have the facility.  Deepak Rawat, district magistrate of Nainital district told TOI, "It is a great achievement for us. The entire district of Nainital will soon be open defecation free."  Rawat said that currently in the district, Ramnagar block has 3,707 houses without toilets, while Haldwani has 2,917 houses which lack the facility. In Okhalkanada, 2712 houses have been identified without toilets while 1,571 houses are without a toilet in Bheemtaal. The number is 1,424 in Dhari, 1,061 in Beetalghat and 2,460 in Kotabagh.
Gurgaon: Residents of DLF areas have demanded that the state government should formulate a policy for those living in plotted areas so that they continue to get non-mandatory maintenance services even after the MCG takes over their locality."As and when our area is taken over by the MCG, it will provide us basic maintenance such as water, roads, sewer and drainage. These are the mandatory services that the MCG has to provide. However, the area residents have been receiving certain service from the private developer such as round-the-clock security, door-to-door garbage collection and clearing of unwanted growth in vacant plots," said Rama Rani, area councillor."For these added services, we have been paying maintenance charges to the developer and we want that these services should be granted by MCG and we are willing to pay it for it," Rani added.However, she said that for this to happen, a plotted area act like condominium or apartment act has to formulated for the plotted area property owners, so that they are binded by such act."We requested the principal secretary of the town and country planning department on Thursday to look into this matter and formulate a policy whereby every property owner will be responsible to pay additional maintenance charges for non-mandatory services," Rani said.Talking to TOI, a senior official of the department said since there is no such policy in the state, they will have to study relevant cases elsewhere in the country to find out if the residents in plotted area can be mandated to pay for non-mandatory services. "This is the first-of-its-kind case that has been brought before us and we will have to look at prevalent cases in other cities in India before we can take a final stand on this," he said.
 Kanpur: Union minister for road transport, highways and shipping Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said that the travel time between Lucknow and Kanpur would reduce to 35-40 minutes, instead of 90 minutes at present.  He said that this could be possible with the construction of an access control expressway.  "Soon we will get the detailed project report (DPR) of this expressway," Gadkari while replying to reporters during the video-conferencing held at the district collectorate here on Thursday evening.  Gadkari was talking to journalists from 11 districts of the state, including Allahabad, Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Varanasi, Meerut, Agra, Gorakhpur and others.  He said that expressways would be constructed between Delhi and Dasna in Ghaziabad and from Dasna to Kanpur.  Replying to a question that six national highways meet in Kanpur and therefore, there should be an outer ring so that the heavy vehicles should not enter the city, Gadkari said that problem in land acquisition is coming in the way and also the the land acquisition is very high.  "The 50% the cost of land acquisition should be borne by the state government but if they do not do so, then we will do the needful. We are looking for banks that can provide low interest loans," he said.  Replying to a question that a rail over bridge (ROB) is being constructed in which railway has completed its part of the construction work but the NHAI job is still remaining, the minister said that National Highway Authority of India has already given 60% of the money to the PWD for the construction of the ROB and remaining 40% would be provided to soon.  Gadkari said 10,000 electronic stickers were provided to the vehicle owners in the recent past which enabled the vehicle drivers not to stop at the toll booths and a camera scanned the vehicle number and the toll amount got deducted from the bank.  But as proper marketing of these stickers could not be done, the scheme could not pick up.  "We will make people about it," he added.
Belagavi: President of the Sugarcane Growers Association, Kuruburu Shantakumar said farmers will stage a protest in front of chief minister Siddaramaiah's residence if the government failed to get sugar mills clear their dues before June 30. Talking to reporters here on Wednesday, he said that sugar mills are yet to pay Rs 850 crore to farmers despite repeated requests. The state government is also neglecting the issue and refusing to take action against defaulting sugar mills. "If the government fails to make sugar mills clear the dues by June 30, thousands of farmers will stage a protest in front of the CM's residence," he said.As per the rules, sugar factories should pay dividend to farmers on a 70:30 ratio by taking into account the profit from the byproducts of sugarcane, he added.He also demanded that the Centre bring sugarcane and silk under the Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme as farmers have suffered a huge loss last year due to drought. Sugarcane grown on nearly 2 lakh acres of land was lost in the state and no farmer got compensation, he added.He also blamed the Centre for keeping unchanged the Fair and Remunerative Price (FRP) for sugarcane for the current year. "Unfortunately, no elected representative is raising their voices on such issues," he said.Vice-president Babu Upasi, organizing secretary Attihalli Devraj, Irappa Aralikatti, S B Sidnal, and Shankargouda Hadimani were present.
Bhubaneswar: State tourism and culture minister Ashok Chandra Panda released a 1,000-page book, 'Odisha Famine - Na'anka (1865-1866)', at the State Archives here on the occasion of the International Archives Day on Thursday to document the catastrophic famine that wiped out almost a third of the population of the coastal Odisha 150 years ago.The famine, known as 'Na'anka Durbikhya', occurred during the rule of king Dibyasingha Deb. The book delves deeper into reasons and effects of the calamity and subsequent developments. It comprises several revenue documents, government reports and newspaper clippings on the famine along with archival records sourced from West Bengal and erstwhile Madras presidency for documentation."A lot of efforts have been made to compile the book, from compiling the documents to deciphering the writings. The famine paved way for various developmental works and administrative initiatives by the then government," said culture secretary Manoranjan Panigrahy.A short film on the famine was screened and a painting and terracotta exhibition portraying the catastrophe was on the occasion."The famine was one of the darkest episodes of Odisha's history. The documents in the book threw light on various aspects, like failure of the government in managing such disasters and the policy decisions to avoid such incidents in future," said Panda, adding, "More such initiatives will be taken up by the State Archives to document major historical events."Artist Ramakanta Samantray, along with Smrutikanta Rout and Susanta Kumar Panda, composed the multimedia exhibition of paintings, terracotta installations and a short film. "The book describes the sufferings of the people in great detail. Some of the incidents are very heart-wrenching and create a sombre mood. The short film was a brave and fossilized summary of the lost action showing the outward horror and inner sufferings," said Samantray.
Bhubaneswar: The state government on Thursday announced a Rs 900-crore plan for strengthening drinking water system in rural areas."While Rs 350 crore from the district mineral foundation would be spent in eight districts, Rs 553 crore (as recommended by 4th state finance commission) would be utilized for the purpose in seven other districts," rural development minister Badri Narayan Patra said on the sidelines of a function, where the chief minister inaugurated 75 drinking water projects for rural areas.Official sources said the Odisha Mining Bearing Areas Development Corporation, an agency constituted for holistic development of mining areas in the state, would implement the project in Jajpur, Keonjhar, Sundargarh, Mayurbhanj, Dhenkanal, Angul, Koraput and Jharsuguda.A corpus of Rs 56 crore contributed by central public sector undertakings like National Aluminium Company, National Thermal Power Corporation and Mahanadi Coalfields Limited would also be spent on strengthening the drinking water system in rural areas, the sources added.Despite the state government's tall claim, only 2.5% ( 2,03,776 of total 81, 55, 383) rural households have access to piped water supply. It has set a target to cover all households by 2025.On the occasion, the chief minister also inaugurated 100 rural bridges constructed under Biju Setu Yojana, a state-sponsored scheme launched in 2011.As many as 900 bridges were to be constructed under this scheme, but only 481 of them have been completed so far. "The state government has allocated Rs 400 crore in the current fiscal for construction of 153 more bridges," Patra said.The opposition Congress and BJP, however, slammed the state government for misleading people. BJP spokesperson Sajjan Sharma said the government is trying to woo the rural voters by making false claims ahead of the panchayat elections.
Cuttack, Jun 9 () A lower court here today framed charges for alleged offences of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy against the gangster Dhalasamant brothers -   Sushant and   Sushil . The judicial magistrate (first class) court also on the day framed charges against the brothers in another case for alleged offence under   Bihar and Odisha Excise Act for keeping huge stock of liquor in their house. The brothers, however, pleaded not guilty in all these offences and sought to face trial in the cases shifting the onus now on the prosecution to prove in the court that they are guilty of the charges levelled against them. Trials in these two cases are likely to begin from June 22, informed the brothers' counsel Soura Chandra Mohapatra. Both brothers were produced in the court on the day. While the younger brother Sushil travelled here from   Balasore district jail, Sushant was brought here from   Jharpada jail in Bhubaneswar. The charges were framed against the gangster brothers for procuring fake driving licenses and other documents reportedly seized by the city police from their rented house in   Vishakapatnam in Andhra Pradesh. While the police have slapped at least 19 cases against the brothers this year, charge sheets in 17 of them, including a murder case, have already been submitted in the court. Charge sheets in another case of murder and tender fixing against the brothers are yet to be filed. COR AAM DKB
PANAJI: Defence minister Manohar Parrikar's insistence for Naval presence at the proposed Mopa civilian airport and union minister Nitin Gadkari's proposal to utilize 200 acres of prime land at Betul for a satellite port has provided the Congress ammunition to challenge Goa chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar.Congress Rajya Sabha MP Shantaram Naik on Saturday said that Parsekar was too weak to handle the pressure being put by the Gadkari-Parrikar combine. "Parsekar is just a namesake CM. Everytime Parrikar comes to Goa, he calls the CM and gets files cleared," Naik said.The proposed greenfield airport at Mopa in North Goa would have a separate Naval enclave for which five acres of land would be earmarked, Parrikar had said. Naik argued that the whole premise of establishing a new airport at Mopa was because the Navy would not allow civil aviation authorities full control over the existing airport at Dabolim.Naik also questioned the need to nationalize all the rivers in Goa. "The state government will have no control over the rivers once they are nationalized. You don't need to nationalize rivers if you want to use them for transportation," the MP said.
Jaipur: Aiming to bring down maternal mortality ratio (MMR) in the state, health department launched Pradhan Mantri Surakshit Matratva Abhiyan (Prime Minister Safe Motherhood Campaign) in the state from Thursday. Under the campaign, Prime Minister Safe Motherhood Day (PMSMD) will be celebrated at primary health centres, community health centres, district hospitals, satellite hospitals and sub-district hospitals on 9th of every month across the state. According to the health department officials, a pregnant woman should undergo at least four antenatal check-ups. "The campaign aims that a pregnant woman should be examined by a gynaecologist or a medical officer at least once out of the four antenatal check-ups. The rest of the three check-ups can be conducted by auxiliary nurse midwives. We have fixed 9th of every month as the date of check-ups done by medical officers and gynaecologists," a health department official said. He said that they had received a guideline from the centre for introducing the PMSMD. It will also help in identifying the high risk pregnancies. At least 10% of total pregnancies are high risk pregnancies. "Our medical officers and gynaecologists will conduct check-ups. There are 40-50 symptoms of high risk pregnancies such as high blood pressure, low haemoglobin. If such conditions are detected early, we will start providing treatment to such patients immediately free of cost," he said. The accredited social health activists, auxillary nurse midwives and anganwadi workers will also play their role.
Bhubaneswar: Suspended assistant director of factories and boilers Motilal Gouda is suspected to be the kingpin of a racket that swindled several industries of nearly Rs 1 crore on the pretext of conducting health check-ups for their employees.The Crime Branch, which launched a manhunt to arrest Gouda, registered a case against him on June 6 on the basis of a complaint by the directorate of factories and boilers, a unit of the labour department. Gouda was suspended on May 29 on charges of fabricating a government gazette and issuing a fake notification to 580 industrial houses to compulsorily send their employees for health check-ups to five pathological laboratories and clinics of his choice in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack.Though Gouda had issued the fake notification on October 16, 2015, having the empanelment list of five pathological laboratories, the state government mysteriously ignored his misdeed as he reportedly enjoyed blessings of senior government officials and political patronage. It is suspected that Gouda's suspension was purposely delayed at the instance of the people in power and the case was handed over to the Crime Branch just a few days ago to allow Gouda go scotfree. "We are looking for him. We strongly suspect Gouda was part of a racket and colluded with those five private healthcare institutions to collect huge money from industries on the ground of conducting health check-ups for their employees on a regular basis. An unsuspecting central PSU issued work order of a staggering Rs 63 lakh in favour of one of those five clinics," said special DG (Crime) B K Sharma.Sharma said the Economic Offence Wing (EOW) of Crime Branch has been entrusted to probe the case. "The EOW will bring those clinics and their runners under the purview of investigation," said Sharma. Despite repeated attempts, Gouda could not be contacted for comment. Gouda had joined the organisation on deputation from the Employees' State Insurance Corporation in 2010. His job was to monitor the health of employees working in hazardous industries in the state. It was his duty to engage doctors registered with the state government and medical association to certify the health condition of the employees of different industries.
Udaipur: Taking cognizance on a petition challenging the credentials and eligibility of Dr S S Sarangdevot, the vice chancellor of Rajasthan Vidyapeeth University, a local court here has ordered the police to investigate the matter.  Sarangdevot, who assumed the post for the second term on June 5 claims to have requisite experience of 10 years as professor, which has been challenged by petitioner Prafull Nagar, who is son of Manish Janardan Rai Nagar, founder of the university. The petitioner said he had to move to the court as Pratapnagar police station did not lodged the complaint.The petitioner claimed in his plea that Dr Sarangdevot has gained post wrongfully by submitting false papers. As per a UGC notification (dated 8th Feb. 2016, F.6-1(II).2006(CPP-1/DU) third amendment section 3), it is mandatory that the applicant should have minimum 10 years of experience as professor in a university or 10 years of experience in an equivalent position in a reputed research and or academic administrative organization to be appointed as vice chancellor in a deemed university.The petitioner claimed that Sarangdevot was appointed associate professor in the department of accounting in September, 2004. He was appointed as director/professor in the department of computer science and information technology (vide order no. JRNRVU/ADMN/ 2008-09/132 dated Nov.21. 2008). "He will complete 10 years as professor only in 2018. However, he submitted a false order claiming he was made a professor in 2004 at the high court," the petition claims. The petitioner also claimed that Sarangdevot's first appointment as VC in June 2013 was also faulty since he had less than 5 years of experience as a professor.
Coimbatore: In a bid to help mothers take care of their babies while travelling by trains, the railways has opened a baby food corner in the Coimbatore Junction. It is located inside the vegetarian refreshment room in between platforms one and two. The stall will have formula feed, hot water and other feeding accessories like bottles. Prompted by a tweet sent by a toddler's mother to the railways minister Suresh Prabhu, seeking help to feed her baby milk, the ministry decided to make baby food, including milk, available in all major stations, said a press statement from the railways on Thursday. "The minister had promised during his presentation of the railways budget that steps would be taken to make baby food available," said the statement.The Salem division announced that they had set up one such stall each in four stations within the division-Salem, Coimbatore, Erode and Karur, on a pilot basis on Thursday. "The stall has been introduced inside the vegetarian refreshment rooms in each of the stations," said the Salem division spokesperson. The division also plans to introduce feeding rooms for lactating mothers in all stations.
Bundi: Patients in Rajasthan can now assess and certify medical services availed by them at private hospitals under the Vasundhara Raje government's Bhamashah Health Insurance Scheme. The patients under the scheme can now issue certificate of quality services and satisfaction to the private hospital where they have received medical treatment, chief medical and health officer (CMHO) of Bundi, Dr Suresh Jain, said.Last week, the directorate of medical and health services, Jaipur, had issued orders to the CMHOs of the state in this regard and forwarded a format of certificate to be sent to the private hospitals. The government as well as insurance company would take note of the certificate by the patients while extending insurance scheme benefits to the private hospitals, he said. PTI
Guwahati: The Kamrup (Metro) district administration has decided to take strict action against the 'unruly' taxi service at the Lokpriyo Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport (LGBIA). The committee formed by the district magistrate has asked the regional transport authority (RTA) to submit the details of all taxis and drivers within June 13. The step was taken after the district administration received several complaints of harassment of passengers.The committee, headed by additional deputy commissioner Mukta Nath Saikia, held a meeting with all officials concerned of the transport office and police on Wednesday."I have asked the RTA to collect all the details of the taxi stand, the number of vehicles, drivers and their details. All such papers concerned will have to be submitted before June 13 by the RTA. After analyzing the detailed reports, we will take the next step at our meeting which is scheduled to take place on June 15," Saikia told TOI.Angamuthu said there was an unauthorized taxi organization which is running a syndicate in and around the LGBIA, causing immense difficulty. "The syndicate is being run by the Guwahati Airport Taxi Association which is not an authorized association under the Airports Authority of India. This is a serious issue and we have to take appropriate action to systematize the service," added Angamuthu.
Davanagere: Harihar police nabbed two persons in connection with over 11 robberies committed in Davanagere and Chitradurga districts and recovered gold and silver items worth Rs 15,66,900 from them. SP Bheemashankar S Guled said accused Nasrulla, 20 and Zulfikhan, 29, residents of Chitradurga, used to target locked houses in Davanagere, Chitradurga, Holalkere, Harapanahalli, Harihar taluks. Police seized 461 gm golden ornaments, 3.5kg silver ornaments besides four TV's, one camera and a wristwatch.
CHANDIGARH: Almost a year after Prime Minister Narendra Modi praised his idea of 'selfie with daughter,' the former sarpanch of a village in Jind, Sunil Jaglan, has got a website developed for an online museum with a capacity of 10 lakh selfies. The website http://selfiewithdaughter.world - launched by Haryana health minister Anil Vij - got a good response, with more than 13,000 visitors in just a few hours of it going online on Thursday, while the union ministry of women and child development is sharing its link on social media.Vij posted a selfie with his niece Bharti on the website, which is being stated as the world's first such online museum for selfies with daughters. Jaglan had organized a 'selfie with daughter' contest in June 2015, when he was heading the village panchayat of Jind's Bibipur village. According to the former sarpanch, the contest was conducted in the same month, but he is still receiving 'selfies with daughter' on his Whatsapp account. "The craze for the campaign can be estimated from the fact that I have received as many as 8,000 selfies in the past one year. Many of these came from abroad, including USA and Germany," says Jaglan. "The people even asked me to share the selfies on a Facebook page. Such a response inspired me to develop a website where people can upload and see their selfies anytime in the future," he adds.According to the sarpanch, there will be an option of clicking on the website page for a print of the selfie. "The user will be able to find a print of the selfie, automatically signed by the state health minister for the initial three days. Later, there will be automatic signatures of other prominent personalities, including women boxers from Haryana on the print," says the former sarpanch, who is engaged with 'Save the girl child' campaign for the past five years.Jaglan (33) says that the concept of 'selfie with daughter' was launched to motivate parents to feel proud of their daughters in a gender-biased society. He had first come in the limelight when he succeeded in bringing leaders of over 100 khaps on one platform in July 2012 to take a pledge for fighting female foeticide.
Indore: More than 2,000 foreign delegates from 85 countries will attend the Global Investors Summit-2016 (GIS) which will start from October 22. The state industry department organised a meeting on Thursday to discuss preparations for the Summit. Addressing the gathering, DP Ahuja, managing director, Madhya Pradesh Trade and Investment Facilitation Corporation Limited (MPTRIFAC) said, "Madhya Pradesh has established itself as one of the best business destinations in the country and the availability of water, land and power across the state are good for setting up units here. In the past decade, investment of more than Rs 660 crore has been received in state."Ahuja said that apart from around 2,000 delegates of 85 countries, ambassadors and government officials too would participate in the event.The industry department invited suggestions from the industrialists on the preparations for the summit during which many industrialists demanded that the department organize a small scale industry session at Indore instead of Bhopal. "More than 40 per cent of the small scale industries are in Indore, so we want the government to change the plan of hosting this session in Bhopal and opt for Indore instead," said an industrialist.Some industrialists even suggested that chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan should have an interactive session with owners of the industrial units.As per the official website of GIS, industry department would be focussing on agribusiness and food processing, automobile and engineering, defence, IT/ ITeS and ESDM (information technology), new and renewable energy, pharmaceuticals, textile and handloom, tourism and urban development.
Jodhpur: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has registered a case against former chairman of Jodhpur Development Authority (JDA) Rajendra Singh Solanki and 20 other former officials including former commissioner (retired), deputy commissioner and a councillor of JMC (Jodhpur Municipal Corporation) for double financial sanctions for same work in different financial years without any work order that caused loss to the government of around Rs 3.8 lakh by making excess payment. Ajay Pal Lamba, SP (ACB), said that the investigation brought to fore large scale financial embezzlement by JDA that caused huge loss to the government. Following this, cases have been registered against 21 persons under sections 13 (1) C, D and 13 (2) of Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 and sections 420, 409 and 120 (B) of IPC.Besides Solanki, other accused include former officials like the then commissioner Shafi Mohammad Qureshi (retired), deputy commissioner Udaibhan Charan, director (finance) Ram Pratap Sharma, assistant account officer Kewal Chand Gehlot, councillor of JMC Baby Samaria along with superintendent engineers, executive engineers, assistant engineers, junior engineers, accountants, LDC and the beneficiary contractor.Lamba said that the JDA had sanctioned funds to the tune of Rs 25 lakh in 2012-13 for construction of a community hall at Adarsh Colony in Mansagar. The contract was awarded to a company called Chandra Vijay Enterprises."But on an application by the then councillor of ward number 54, Baby Samriya, the then chairman Rajendra Singh Solanki gave an additional sanction of Rs 75 lakh for the same work, pushing the total work cost to Rs. 1 crore," said Lamba.Similarly, without going into the details of this work, another contract of worth Rs 70 lakh was awarded to the same contractor in 2013-14 for the same work. Interestingly, the entire amount was spent on the garden work, whereas the actual tender was given for the construction of community hall.Lamba said that without any proposal in the board meeting for transfer of work, the JDA not only passed the bills but also increased the financial sanction of this work to 1 crore from initial sanction of Rs 70 lakh. During the investigation, the ACB also found that the payment made to the contractor was in excess of Rs 3.84 lakh.In a similar incident, a case has been registered against five persons including three engineers and two account officers on the charges of financial irregularity, casuing a financial loss of Rs 1.20 crore.
DEHARDUN: After a series of inspections, the Medical Council of India has granted a Letter of Permission (LoP) to the state medical education department to start academic sessions from August at Government Doon Medical College Hospital.  The foundation stone of the college was laid by then BJP government in 2009. Construction work on the building started in 2011. However, the government medical college failed to get approval from various MCI teams. A three-member team that inspected Doon Medical College in May seemed satisfied with the facilities and suggested a few changes.  Now that the final MCI approval has come, the academic session will start from August 2016. Out of the 150 MBBS seats that would be available, 85% seats will be reserved for the natives of Uttarakhand.  "All the basic preparations have been done and we are all set to run the show. We will keep improving upon the courses and also add new courses. It is a huge moment not just for the medical college but for the entire state as the capital will now have a government medical college," said Dr Pradeep Bharti Gupta, principal of the college.  Meanwhile, CM Harish Rawat also visited the Indira Amma Canteen located inside the premises of Doon medical college. The visit came as the canteen has sold one lakh food plates from its commencement last year until Thursday.  Rawat announced that 100 additional canteens will be opened across all the major highways of the states and VAT per plate will be waived off. He also announced that women entrepreneurs will be given a bonus of 5% on their earnings.  The CM also faced a volley of questions by the media on the shoddy health facilities in the women's unit of Doon Medical College. He said, "Give me some time. Soon, a district hospital will be established and all health facilities will be improved."
Kolhapur: District collector Amit Saini has asked the government department to take responsibility of maintaining the trees which will be planted under the state-wide drive on July 1. He reviewed the preparations for the drive to plant six lakh trees across the district.Expressing confidence to make the drive successful, Saini said all departments should register their demand for saplings before June 15 with the social forestry department. "All the departments have the schedule and the target with them. The plantation drive must completed according to the on time. The saplings are made available by social forestry, forest department and private nurseries at affordable prices," he said.He added that officers must see that the saplings are reaching to the spot by June 30 and will be planted on July 1. "The target of planting 6 lakh trees will be achieved using this schedule," he said. The collector to people to participate in the drive, adding that schools and colleges have registered their participation. "The survival rate of the saplings must be above 80%," he said,Maharashtra government has undertaken a drive to plant 2 crore trees on July 1 and has allotted target to each of the districts to make the drive successful. District-wise committees have been established across the state under the collector. Besides, taluka and villages level committees have been formed. The government has asked the committees to ensure measures for the survival of the trees for first four years. A committee under chief secretary is coordinating the state-wide drive.
KOCHI: Following the intervention of State Human Rights Commission (SHRC), the government has decided to pay the expenses for follow-up medical treatment of a retired government employee. While the employee C T Harikumar was in service, the government had paid his medical expenses, including cost of kidney transplantation at a private hospital in the city. However, after his retirement, state refused to pay for his follow-up treatment. Aggrieved, he approached the SHRC. The LSG department was told to consider Harikumar's as a special case and allot funds for his treatment.
KOCHI: Bus owners have asked authorities to finish the Palarivattom flyover at the earliest as frequent traffic jams at the junction were adversely affecting their operations. "It takes at least 20 minutes to pass the signal. Some days, there is a delay of 40 minutes. Since we have to adjust the delay in our schedule, we cannot take rest in between trips which we normally take," said P J Joseph, driver of a plying on Kakkanad-Ernakulam route.The construction of the flyover began on June 1 last year during the tenure of the previous UDF government. It was classified as a 'Speed Kerala' project of the Oommen Chandy government. Despite many requests by the Private Bus Operators' Association (PBOA) and promises made by the government, the project has been delayed due to fund crunch."Though we tried to meet the chief minister to inform him about our troubles, we couldn't do so. We have submitted a petition highlighting the problems," said M B Sathyan, president of PBOA. However, sources with the Roads and Bridges Development Corporation of Kerala claimed that they would open the Palarivattom flyover for traffic by the end of this month.
KOLKATA: He stays at a premium condominium at Rajarhat, where he has doctors, engineers and chartered accountants as neighbours. His son studies at a well-known CBSE school in south Kolkata. Whenever he steps out, he is always dressed to the T, impeccable in his branded clothes.      The suave Dinesh Agarwal, who seemed to easily gain trust of people, leads a posh life, but his entire expense is apparently borne by stealing debit and credit cards and swiping out money, even before his victims can block their cards.    Agarwal (45), who was finally arrested by the Kolkata Police on Wednesday night from Rajarhat, had been on the cops' lookout list for long. The fraudster is an expert in stealing credit and debit cards and mobiles, both used to drain out money within hours. The police are looking for his accomplices.          The police started looking for Agarwal after a professor at Vidyasagar College lodged a complaint at the Ahmherst Street police station. According to the complaint, the physics professor, who was in a rush to reach her class on time, left behind her bag at the department on May 27. Agarwal, who would snoop around banks, clubs and government establishments looking for targets--most of them distracted women--was allegedly at the college at that time and picked up the bag.      By the time the professor lodged a police complaint in the evening, more than a lakh had been swiped out of her two cards from a foreign bank. She also had three expensive mobiles in the bag.      Agarwal allegedly bought clothes and shoes from expensive branded shops and purchased gold worth Rs 50,000, besides withdrawing cash from an ATM, draining out Rs 1.8 lakh within a matter of a few hours.      The police pointed out that no one saw him pick the bag up but they made a breakthrough while poring over the images of a CCTV camera installed inside an ATM.      "There had been earlier complaints as well, and the modus operandi matched with his way of functioning. We are looking for Agarwal's gang," a top Kolkata Police officer said.      Explaining his modus operandi, a source said Agarwal would set his target on well-to-do women at banks, government offices and shopping malls, preferably their attention caught in something. "Many save the PINs of their credit and debit cards and bank accounts in mobiles. Agarwal, who would steal the bags or mobiles and purses, would retrieve the numbers in their phones," said an officer. "If the PINs were not saved, he would use the mobile to call up banks, pose as the victim and get hold of information."      Present at the court of ACMM II Abhijit Ghosh, the police on Thursday claimed that they had spotted Agarwal in CCTV images.      Agarwal's lawyer, however, claimed after he was arrested not a single piece of paper could be found on him to establish he had made the purchases with the cards. "It is also being alleged that he took out sensitive data from banks to commit the crime. It is impossible for a man to impersonate a woman and collect data from a bank," Dinesh's lawyer Sandip Ghosh said in court.
Kolkata, Jun 9 () The police today arrested one person on the charge of cheating a college professor over Rs 2 lakh using her debit and credit cards. Dinesh Agarwal alias   Munna was arrested from a housing estate in   Rajarhat near here following an FIR by Prof   Krishna Mitra of   Vidyasagar College here, police said. "The accused entered the college last November during office hours and managed to lift the hand bag of the complainant from the staff room of Vidyasagar College. He withdrew Rs 1,80,000 from an ATM and purchased goods and gold ornaments worth Rs 60,000 from various shops with her debit and credit cards. He got the cards' PIN from her mobile phone which too was in the stolen handbag," a senior officer of the Kolkata Police said. "The woman (professor) was not sure about Agarwal's identity. She only had a brief idea about this person. We nabbed him after a lengthy work," he said. Agarwal, a 'most wanted' person, was accused in around 200 such cases in and outside the   state and most of his victims were women, he said, adding that he leads a high-end lifestyle by cheating others in the same way. "His son is studying in one of the top schools in the city and his wife is a law graduate. His has friends in high positions of the society," the officer said. Asked whether the accused was working with a gang, he said, "Going by the nature of crime, it seems he was working alone... We are looking into it." Kolkata Police's Anti-Bank fraud identified the 40-year-old man from   CCTV footage of various shops and other places and information provided by sources. When produced before a city court, Agarwal was remanded to judicial custody till June 20. SCH NN PVI
KOLKATA: Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur (IIT-Kgp) has been accorded highest laurels in DST-Lockheed Martin India Innovation Growth Programme (IIGP) 2016, a PAN India Innovators' Competition held at Federation House (FICCI) in New Delhi. The Institute has got a total of 30 winners, three of which are for high-impact research which includes real-time fog removal from videos in application to safety and surveillance by Manish Kumar Sharma from Electronics and Communication Engineering department, under guidance of Sudipta Mukhopadhyay, design of microfluidic system for controlled drug delivery by Richa Mishra from Advanced Technology Development Center, under guidance of Tarun Kanti Bhattacharyya and Tapas Kumar Maity and simple low cost processing of metallic foam for diverse applications by Kausik Kapat from School of Medical Science & Technology, under the guidance of Santanu Dhara All the three winners would receive professional business development assistance from FICCI. Their names would be further nominated under the selected top 10 for Silicon Valley visit for developing suitable business partners to commercialize their products in India as well as global markets.IIGP is a joint initiative of the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Indo-US Science and Technology Forum, Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), Stanford Graduate School of Business and the IC2 Institute at the University of Texas to accelerate innovative Indian technologies into the global markets using world-class commercialization strategies and the business development assistance.Partha Pratim Chakrabarti, director of IIT-Kgp said "IIT Kharagpur has the culture towards research & innovation excellence. In 2013 allocations were made for special R&D grants. The Institute has also been promoting early induction to research and innovation at all student levels - undergraduate, postgraduate and doctoral. Excellence in R&D in academic institutions like IITs is a criterion to contribute to our nation's development and compete with top global universities and IIT Kharagpur has set its target towards it."
Three members of a family died on Thursday evening when a car rammed into a truck near Debra police station of Buramal on National Highway 6. The accident took place when four family members from Belur in Howrah were returning after their week long visit to Puri along with the driver. The seven-year old daughter Priya Tewari, her mother Sulekha Tewari and Priya's father Subrata Nandi died on the spot. Joy Tewari, their son, and driver of the vehicle Deepu Patra survived. They were rushed to Midnapore Medical College with severe head injuries. The car in which the family was travelling rammed into a truck which was also heading towards Howrah.Nandi's car has been destroyed from the impact of the accident. A senior officer of Kharagpur police said, "We rushed to the spot immediately after the accident. We had sent the injured to the hospital for treatment as the survivors were in a critical condition. The other three are dead. We have informed the survivors of Nandi family about the accident. They will arrive in Midnapore shortly. Post mortem of the bodies will be done on Friday."
Kolkata, June 9 (IANS) Vistara, a joint venture between Tata Sonsand Singapore Airlines(SIA), on Thursday said it will finalise its aircraft procurement plan after the outcome of the 5/20 rule.   "Plan will be clear after outcome of the 5/20 rule. Till then, we have to wait as it will help us clear many factors on procurement," said airline's CEO Phee Teik Yeoh.   The airline has 11 aircrafts. It will add two more by next October and plans were firmed for 20 by 2018, he said at the launch of their Kolkata-Delhiflight from Friday.   According to the present 5/20 rule, airlines in India were allowed to fly abroad only if it has domestic flying experience for five years and at least 20 aircraft in its fleet strength.   Yeoh indicated that the airline was ready to fly overseas destinations immediately once the regulatory requirement of five years flying experience was relaxed. The airline currently was only 17 months old in India.   It had realigned its seating classes this April by reducing business class and premium economy class seats and increasing economy class seats.   "New seating arrangement is complete in six aircrafts and another five would be done by July," he said.   The airline connects 17 destinations with 457 flights a week with 80 percent load factor. In the next few months the airline plans to connect 4 destinations from the city.   --IANS   bdc/ahm/dg
Kolkata: Vistara, the Tata-Singapore Airlinesjoint venture, is ready to unveil international flights within six months of getting the Centre's nod.   Speaking to TOI on the eve of Vistara commencing twice daily flights between Kolkata and Delhi, airline CEO Phee Teik Yeohsaid the company was ready to operate to countries in west Asia or south-east Asia with just over four hours flight time but would take at least a year for long-haul operations.   "The only constraint that we may face is the type of aircraft that we have. The current fleet of narrow-body AirbusA-320s have four-and-a-half hour flight time. If we are to fly beyond to say East Asia, Europe or US, we will need wide-bodied aircraft that have more passenger and fuel capacity. Procuring new planes may take a year or more," said Yeoh, adding that he was open to both Airbus and Boeingaircraft so long as it made business sense.   The Vistara CEO is pinning hopes on the government revising the 5/20 rule that currently allows only those airline that are five years old and have at least 20 aircraft to fly international. There are indications that the government may lift the five-year limitation but retain the 20 aircraft rule so that domestic connectivity does not suffer.   Vistara will be five years old only in January 2020 but will have a fleet of 20 aircraft two years earlier in 2018. At present, Vistara has a fleet of 11 aircraft with two more set to join later this year. "We will decide on the type of aircraft and the numbers to buy only after the government amends the 5/20 rule," he said.   Yeoh said the international product as well as seat configuration would be more superior than the one offered domestically. "We have to look at the class configuration. Should we retain the premium economy or introduce first class are points to be considered. But we will definitely have a product that will stand out in the market, just as Vistara does in the domestic airline industry."
KOLKATA: An 80-plus-year-old man cement dealer in Chapra has opened a Rs 4 lakh Monthly Income Scheme (MIS) for as many as 200 poor people who come to his shop begging for alms.Nikhil Saha used to give them small change everyday for 6 years and after his wife's suggestion, he started giving them a consolidated amount at the end of the week.Soon, the octogenarian started mainting a ledger book and started giving all the 200 people who came to him, Rs 10 at the end of the month. Still, Saha soon started to worry and wondered what would happen to the poor people - who now rely on him - when he dies.That's when he decidde to start an MIS for them. He also wants to set up a committee consisting that will manage the funds and distribute money to the 200 people after his death.To make it easy to identify them, Saha has also made photo IDs for all 200 people.Story by Gautam Dhonihttp://eisamay.indiatimes.com/state/nikhil-save-money-for-200-beggers-/articleshow/52683173.cms
Kolkata: Where there is passion, there is a way: that's the motto of five football fanatics from the city who have packed their bags, ready to fly off to France to watch the Euro Cup. In fact, one of them is so zealous about the beautiful game that he has travelled all the way to Portugal, Austria-Switzerland and Ukraine for three such tournaments.  For Tala Park resident Dipak Nandy, soccer is like a "drug". "I've been to the World Cup, Olympics and Euro Cup. As long as my health and purse permit, I'll continue this way," the businessman said. Three batches of soccer-tourists are leaving Kolkata from June 24. It was Nandy's soccer-tourism bug that got the others addicted.  The Euro Cup, they believe, is where the real action happens. "Players are usually more careful with foot injuries at World Cup. Procuring tickets for Euro is tough. We are thankful to Sabyasachi Dasgupta for arranging them," said Bansdroni businessman Kangsari Kayal, as he met his soccer buddies at Dasgupta's office to collect the tickets for the final match. "These tickets will be treasured as souvenirs. I'm going to keep mine," businessman Sanjay Chatterjee said. Dasgupta makes arrangements for sports tourism.  Like children grabbing candies, the five held their tickets to the finals at Saint Denis on July 10-worth 670 Euro-hardly able to contain their excitement. To celebrate the occasion, they partied over chips, chops and sandesh even as one of them passed around a Brazuca, the official soccer ball of 2014 World Cup.  Businessman from Jadavpur Mihir Dutta was holidaying at his son's house in Louisville when Kayal called him up to inform that the Euro tickets had been organised. "Immediately, I had my son cancel our COPA America tickets. My son sold tickets for 12 matches online," said the East Bengal supporter, who is set to leave for France on June 29. Their friend, Chatterjee, started asking Dasgupta to arrange for tickets six months ago. "The countdown has begun and I can't wait to leave for France on July 4. The same day, two other enthusiasts, S Pal and Rakesh Jha, will also fly with me to France," said Chatterjee, also an East Bengal supporter.  The love for soccer aside, it's the Ronaldo magic that has Kayal, Dutta and Chatterjee in its spell. "We've watched Messi play. This time, it's the Ronaldo fever. We are also looking forward to Muller's game," they said in unison. Pankaj Ghosh, former coach of Sports Authority of India, will leave on June 24. "For me, it is the technical details," said the Mohun Bagan enthusiast. Nandy also looks forward to watching new countries, such as Iceland, participate. "After watching eight World Cup matches, I am no longer star-struck. This is the first time that 24 countries are playing. There is a round 16 too," Nandy pointed out.  None of the five seems to be worried about the expenditure. "For earlier tournaments, I'd need loans. Now, it is easier. A trip costs Rs 3 lakh-Rs 4 lakh, and is worth every penny," said Ghosh, a resident of Baidyabati. Last year in Brazil, Kayal had even caught the attention of photographers as he donned dhoti-punjabi to the stadium to watch the finals. He just might carry another dhoti-punjabi set this time too.  Back home, do they watch the local club matches? Though the standards are "nowhere close", they don't miss out on them. For them, watching soccer is not just a hobby, it is a way of life.
Kochi, Jun 10 () A Special Investigation Team probing the murder of a Dalit woman in nearby Perumbavoor has secured CCTV footage from a shop in the neighbourhood of her residence to examine whether it captured movements of the suspected killer on the day the law student was murdered.  "We have secured the CCTV camera details from the shop hoping that it might have captured visuals of the suspected killer," a senior police official probing the case said.  The official, who did not wish to be named, downplayed local media reports which claimed the CCTV footage secured by police showed the suspected killer following the law student in the neighbourhood of her residence, hours ahead of the incident on April 28.  According to the reports, CCTV evidence secured from the fertiliser depot showed a man wearing a yellow T Shirt following a woman, believed to be the victim, who was on her way home after getting down from a bus at Vattolippady near Perumbavoor around 1.30 PM that day.  "It is not sure whether the people found in the footages are related to the incident," the official told when asked about such reports.  Meanwhile, the owner of the fertiliser depot, Shibu, told reporters that the police probing the case took the hard disc of the CCTV footage on Wednesday.  Newly appointed Kerala Police chief Loknath Behera, while visiting the house of the 30-year-old woman on Sunday, had said a scientific probe has been launched to nab the culprits involved in the crime.  Noting that the probe into the sensational case was progressing well, he had said it might take some time to nab the criminals.  The case is being investigated by a team headed by ADGP B Sandhya.  The newly sworn-in LDF government in one of its first decisions had appointed the senior woman IPS officer as head of the new team to probe the case.  The Kerala High Court had last week rejected the plea for a CBI probe into the case, noting that the new Special Investigation Team had been set up in the case.  The woman, who hailed from a poor family, was allegedly raped and brutally assaulted using sharp-edged weapons before being murdered at her house on April 28.  The murder was in focus during the May 16 Kerala Assembly poll campaigns with political parties attacking the then UDF regime for "tardy" progress in the investigation and its failure to nab the culprits. TGB APR SRY
KOCHI: The Kerala high court has quashed a circular issued by transport commissioner, Tomin J Thachankary asking sub-dealers of vehicles to cease operations. Justice Shaji P Chaly quashed the circular issued by the transport commissioner on May 5, 2016 after considering three petitions, including one by Kerala Automobile Dealers Association. While vehicle manufacturers have been pushing sales in rural areas by allotting sub-dealerships in small towns, the transport commissioner had alleged in the circular that such practice has resulted in customers being overcharged in the name of handling charges and had ordered a crackdown on sub-dealerships.As per existing law, dealers are exempted from the necessity of registration of the vehicles in their custody but they have to obtain a trade certificate for each vehicle. While sub-dealerships use the trade certificates issued to the main dealer, the transport commissioner's circular banned such practice and asked the regional transport officers (RTOs) under him not to accept vehicles from sub-dealers for registration but only from 'bona fide' dealers.The petitioners before the high court contended that the transport commissioner's circular takes away the quasi-judicial powers granted to the RTOs to consider applications for trade certificates independently. The circular overturns the hierarchical structure of the adjudicative machinery envisaged under law, especially as the transport commissioner is the authority that has to hear appeals over the RTO's decision on applications for trade certificates, it was alleged.Opposing this, government pleader argued that the transport commissioner is empowered, as per Kerala Motor Vehicles Rules, to issue circulars and instructions to guide the officer of motor vehicles department.Ruling in favour of the petitioners, the court held that by stipulating in the circular that a sub-dealer cannot be considered as a dealer, the power conferred on the RTO to decide who is a bona fide dealer loses its efficacy. Quashing the transport commissioner's circular, the court held that it is arbitrary and illegal as it interdicts, eclipses and interferes with the quasi-judicial powers conferred on the RTOs.
KOCHI: We may have an excellent healthcare system, but when it comes to immunity from diseases, we have been found wanting, and possibly for reasons that are beyond genetics. Or why would the district be in the grip of communicable diseases just two days into the monsoon?Take the case of dengue. While only 130 dengue cases were reported for the whole of 2015, this year the district has seen a spike, with health officials putting the figure at 186. There have been 26 dengue cases reported in the first 10 days of June alone. Similarly, there is a surge in fever and diarrhea cases as well.The eastern parts of the district has been more prone to dengue. "Dengue cases are mostly being reported from areas such as Kothamangalam and Muvattupuzha," said Dr N K Kuttappan, district medical officer (DMO), Ernakulam.The increase in the number of dengue cases in the eastern parts of the district has been, surprisingly, attributed to the fall in prices of agricultural produce. "Due to the fall in prices of agricultural produce, there is little activity in plantations and orchards in the eastern parts. Rubber tapping labourers have not entered plantations for the past few months. Same is the case with cocoa farms. These plantations have become breeding places of vectors in an unprecedented manner. This might have caused the surge in dengue cases," said Dr Balagangadharan, district surveillance officer (DSO), Ernakulam.With dengue and cases of other monsoon diseases going up, district health authorities have started a control room attached to the office of the DMO."The control room will function round-the-clock. The public can seek any assistance regarding monsoon diseases," Dr Kuttappan said. "We started the control room as dengue cases have already risen to 186. The figure for dengue fever was only 130 in the last calendar year," he added.At Government Medical College, Ernakulam, there are at least four dengue patients in the pediatric ICU alone. There is a surge in other diseases like fever also."The number of fever cases, which comes in the 15-20 range during normal months, has gone up to 80 in May. We expect the number to double in June. So, we have started a fever ward in the medical college. There is a fever desk functioning in the casualty as well," said Dr Bibin Jeevan, resident medical officer (RMO), Government Medical College, Ernakulam.He also said that the number of dengue cases has increased."In fact, a patient died of dengue a few days ago. The patient hailing from the eastern parts of the district was brought to the medical college after he became worse," a doctor with the medical college said. The number of fever cases from across the district, which was about 400-500 a day on an average, has shot up to 800-900. "Fever cases will continue to be high till July-August," Dr Kuttappan said.Dr Balagangadharan said that there was a surge in the number of diarrhea cases also. "The total number of diarrhea cases since January 2016 is around 12,000. In May alone, 1,754 cases were reported. This is bit high from the last year's figure," he said.
KOLKATA: In a heartbreaking incident, a female rhino was gored to death by two bull rhinos in Jaldapara National Park on Wednesday, after she rebuffed their sexual overtures.      "This is one of the rarest moments in the history of Indian forests. We are very surprised and worried," said Assistant Wildlife Conservator Bimal Debnath.      The female, which had lost her calf a few days prior to the attack, was wandering alone in the the Kodalbasti CC Line of the park. She was spotted by two males, who attempted to court her.    However, she spurned their advances.      The two males then began to fight over her, and sustained minor injuries.      Then - inexplicably - the two bulls abandoned their duel and approached the female together. When she continued to avoid them, the enraged pair began attacking her. They rained blows on her hide with their horns, and continued to assault the female even she tried to take cover. Blood began to spurt from the many wounds on her body.      Forest guards who noticed the attack attempted to break up the trio by firing shots into the air, but to no avail. The males persisted in their ruthless onslaught for three hours.      Grievously wounded, the female could no longer stand. Her assailants were relentless - the continued to kick her even as she lay on the ground.      Her ordeal was to end in some time, when she had a cardiac attack and breathed her last. The males continued to stand their ground beside her corpse. It wasn't until Thursday morning that forest guards were able to recover her body, and conduct post-mortem analyses.      Read this story in Bengali.      Content courtesy: Ei Samay
KOCHI: Following the rains, there's been a surge in the number of houseflies and mosquitoes in city homes, raising fear of malaria, typhoid, jaundice and diarrhoea. According to residents, houseflies, which were rare in the past, have started to appear in large numbers. "It has been a fortnight since we started seeing houseflies in such big numbers. There are no waste dumps in our area. We are unable to control the houseflies," said Vilasini, a homemaker. According to district health authorities, houseflies cause diseases such as typhoid and diarrhoea. "Though 52 cases of malaria have been reported from across the district, all the patients are migrant labourers," said Dr N K Kuttappan, DMO. "The rise in the number of houseflies could be due to littering of waste in and around the house," he said.
Kolkata, Jun 9 () The "Congress brand of politics" has been defeated in the recent   Assembly elections which also has proved that the country's new slogan is "Congress free India", BJP national general secretary   Ram Madhav today said. "In the recent Assembly elections, BJP has fared well. It has formed a government for the first time in   Assam , it has done well in   West Bengal . But the people of our country have given a resounding verdict," Madhav said at a programme here. "The resounding verdict is total rejection of Congress by the people. Before   Lok Sabha elections (Narendra)   Modiji had given a call for Congress free India. Now it seems it has become the slogan of the entire country," Madhav said. "Till the Congress has its present leaders, they themselves will lose elections. But the real meaning of Congress free India is defeating the Congress' brand of politics, which symbolises corruption, policy paralysis, appeasement and dynasty politics," he said. The senior BJP leader also took a dig at the CPI(M) in West Bengal, who had forged an alliance with Congress. "Even the allies who have fought with Congress have been washed away. Those who have pursued the politics of duplicity have also suffered. The politics of alliance in Bengal and fight in   Kerala has backfired,"   Madahav said. Madhav also had a word of caution for   Trinamool Congress , which has allegedly engaged in post poll violence. "Why this violence in politics? If you are in politics, fight us politically. If TMCtries to bring in the culture of Congress, it won't take much of time to change the slogan from Congress free India to TMC free India," Madhav said. PNT NN RCJ
KOCHI: An aesthetic fusion of visual art and poetry, creating art that can be heard, seen, touched and felt, both literally and metaphorically. That's the project undertaken by five poets who are presenting their works at Durbar Hall Art Galleryin the city as a part of the Poetry Installation exhibition, which began on Thursday.   "The idea behind the project was to create an artistic genre wherein three-dimensional works are clubbed with recorded live recitation and background sound to create what I like to call 'tangible poetry' that transcends the boundaries of visual art and spoken word," said Tenzin Tsundue, writer and activist, whose poem 'When it rains in Dharamsala' is being featured as part of the exhibition.   Other featured poets include Ajeesh Dasan, Rafeeq Ahammad and Cini Mathew John whose poems have been 'transformed' into sculpture by artist Vinod Krishna. The exhibition will go on till June 15 and will be open for public daily from 11am to 7pm.
Kolkata, June 9 (IANS) Railway Minister Suresh Prabhuon Thursday urged the West Bengalgovernment to be a partner in developing railway stationsin the state and said he would be very happy if Chief Minister Mamata Banerjeeagrees to form a joint venture company with his department.   Prabhu, who called on Banerjee at the state secretariat " Nabanna" during the day, said so far 17 state governments have given the nod to float joint venture companies with the Ministry of Railways. The proposal was a highlight of the minister's budget speech.   "It is up to the West Bengal government. We will be more than happy if the state government agrees to form a joint venture company," Prabhu told mediapersons at the Press Club, Kolkata, when asked if the Banerjee government had agreed to be partner in the project.   Prabhu said he requested Banerjee to let her government work jointly in developing Railway Stations.   "I offered to the Chief Minister that there are stations that can be developed as a joint venture. The advantage, obviously is that the local ethos of that particular place can be reflected. Another advantage is that all the local permissions, which slow down project implementation, can be fast tracked," he said.   The minister said the JV with the state government, formed on the basis of equity sharing, can undertake projects worth much more than the budget allocation.   Prabhu said this would bolster growth.   To buttress his point, the Railway Minister referred to Maharashtra, where the JV company is dealing with projects worth over Rs 19,000 crore.   Replying to a query on the law and order situation, particularly relating to the railways, he suggested the creation of a seamless policing agency. Presently, the Railway Protection Force- that secures railway property - is under the Railway Ministry. But, the Government Railway Police, that ensures security in railway stations, reports to the state government.   Prabhu said the two ongoing Metro projects in the state - Joka-BBD Bag and Dum Dum-New Garia - are continuing "at a great pace". He lauded the state government for its help in taking forward the projects.   "We are now working at a great pace. We have discussed in detail with our officers, therefore the overall idea is how we can develop the state's infrastructure. Our aim is to bring about integration of urban transport."   The Chief Minister said the Railway Ministry and the state government can work together. "We have to sort out some issues, but wherever there is a serious problem like those afflicting the Metro, and other pending work, we can take care of them."   Regarding the East-West Metroproject connecting Salt Lake Sector Vwith Howrah Maidan, she said "We want it to be completed as soon as possible. Joka-BBD bag and Airport-New Gariametros are necessary as they involve all the main routes."   Meanwhile, Railway Board Chairman A.K. Mitalsaid West Bengal was one of the beneficiaries of the railways' capital expenditure programme.   "Capital outlay for Railways infrastructure projects in West Bengal was at Rs 2,907 crore in 2014-15, the same has been increased to Rs 4,000 crore in 2016-17 as per budgetary announcement."   In 2015-16, more than 200 km of new lines and doubling works were completed and a similar sort of target is being persuaded for the current fiscal.     --IANS   ssp-bdc-int/rn/dg
KOCHI: Public works department Minister G Sudhakaran, who issued an order recently against digging of national highways and PWD roads during monsoon, has eased his stand following repeated requests from both PWD and Kerala Water Authority for carrying out emergency works. The pipe burst at Vayalikkada in Muttada has finally made the minister relax the ban on digging of roads in situations such as pipe burst. PWD Minister G Sudhakaran and Water Resources minister Mathew T Thomas had a discussion following the pipe burst on Thursday night.A 400 mm diameter premo pipe burst at Vayalikkada on early morning on Thursday. The water supply to areas such as Medical college, Ulloor, Kesavadasapuram, Muttada areas were affected by the pipe burst. However, the KWA could not even assess the damage due to PWD order against digging.There were several rounds of discussions in the evening after which PWD agreed to dig the road, but on a condition that KWA must pay the restoration charges which will be around Rs 4 lakh. A senior official of PWD said that they never got any restoration charges from KWA even though frequent pipe bursts in PWD road causes major loss to the department.The KWA began restoration works at the night. KWA executive engineer Thomas Isaac said that work is expected to be over by Friday evening.A statement issued by office of PWD Minister G Sudhakaran said that there was a meeting with Water Resources minister Mathew T Thomas. "Permission has been given to dig roads for emergency works such as pipe burst. The road must be restored immediately after work," he said.
ALAPPUZHA: Navy and Coastguard began a search in sea off Vadackal Coast in Alappuzha following the information that four fishermen went missing in the sea. However, the district police chief A Akbar told TOI that they had fist received the information but later, they only found the debris of a boat in the sea. However, the Navy and Coastguard kicked off a search based on the information.
Kolkata: Knives are out for the Alimuddin Streetmandarins, two days ahead of the CPM state committee meeting Saturday, over a hastily cobbled jote with Congressthat hasfailed to deliver. Moreover, More important,it has risked the consolidation of Left parties that forms the core of a broad-based platform against the ruling Trinamool. Some more criticisms are expected from Left partners in the Left Frontmeeting on Friday.   As usual, a bunch of letters has already reached CPM Central Committeeagainst the Bengal CPM's deviating from the political-tactical line of the CPM, that rules out any alliance or understanding with Congress, not even dais sharing. Some of them have also referred to former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee's sharing dais with Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhiat Park Circuswith a hope to make headway among the Urduspeaking Muslims. It didn't work. Instead, many neighbouring wards showed a dip in jote poll percentage.   In the process, Left lost the main Opposition status in the West Bengal Assemblyand became a second party in the Opposition after Congress. These facts have come in handy to jote opponents to make out a case against Alimuddin Street in front of CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury, and politburo members Prakash Karat, Manik Sarkar and M A Baby.   For leaders warming up for shadow boxing, here is a post from Farha Kazifrom Baikanthapurin Burdwan. "Getting death threats soon after the attack on my house, I tried to get in touch with the party leaders in Burdwan- Ainul Haq, Madan Ghosh, Amal Haldar...You all told me that you can't help me at the moment. You all sit in your ivory tower and analyse the results. Let me take to the streets on my own. Let me tell you I stood by the villagers and have been successful to a great extent," the post said. The disgust is apparent. In Kolkata, CPM cadres have stopped sending SOS to senior leaders. There are instances in Maniktala, where victims wanted senior leaders to stay away.   If CPM leaders have the guts to accept this reality they need to look for something more fundamental than just electoral tactic. "We need to change our bureaucratic mindset and address the disconnect from the Left's target group - urban and rural poor, scheduled castes and tribes and minorities. We have been discussing this since 2009 but have not been able to make a breakthrough," a CPM state committee member said. Even worse, BJPhas made impressive dents among tribals and Rajbanshis. This is true for urban centres such as Kolkata, Asansol as well.   Yet, the fact remains that over 2 crore people voted for the jote that the Left can hardly discount. "We can't just wish away the jote and send out a signal that we went for the jote for electoral gains only," the CPM leader said. Those opposing the jote tactic are not in favour of dumping the jote. "A democratic secular jote doesn't mean holding hands with Congress only. We can't just put the Left unity at stake," a jote opponent said.   Both the camps have their own arguments, but the isolation remains. On the contrary, BJP is emerging as a steady force in the state and Mamata Banerjeeis no mood to take BJP head on, at least for the moment. CPM ranks want leaders to be with the people, work for the livelihood issues and build movements from below instead of observing "anti-imperialist" week or "attack on democracy week" that the man on the street fails to connect.
Kochi: Three months after an audit by the department of fire and rescue services found Kochi's busy Broadway highly prone to fire accidents, the government has failed to take any action on it. Broadway, the hub of commercial activity in the city, has over 300 shops and other establishments. The report, which had warned of a major fire disaster in Broadway like the recent one at SM Street in Kozhikode and Chala market in Thiruvananthapuram, has been submitted to the district collector for necessary action."The report was submitted to the director general of fire and rescue department and the collector. The government is expected to take necessary steps after reviewing the report," said a senior fire and rescue official who refused to be named.According to the audit, almost all shops and buildings in the market are highly prone to fire accidents. But building owners are reluctant to install fire safety mechanisms such as fire extinguishers, fire detection systems or even first-aid kits.Broadway has a long history of fire accidents. More than four fire accidents have been reported from the area over the last few years that resulted in loss of property."The fire safety audit was conducted by a special team, comprising four officials from the fire and rescue department. The prime objective was to prevent fire mishaps by highlighting safety lapses and suggesting remedial measures. The recommendations in the report have to be carried out in a time-bound manner," the official said, adding that reckless parking, narrow lanes and lack of alarm system have also increased the risk of fire outbreaks.The market has both wholesale and retail outlets trading in metal utensils, plastic products, clothes, paper, construction materials, fancy items and other goods. The market, spread over approximately two sq km, does not have a single fire hydrant."The major cause for fire accidents in the market will mostly be short circuits as many of the buildings are very old and electric connections and wirings obsolete and worn out," the report pointed out.The team also noted the extremely narrow roads in the market that make it impossible for fire brigade vehicles to carry out operations effectively.The traders too lacked any kind of awareness regarding the matter. "I regularly pray to god to prevent any kind of fire accidents here. It's not economical for me to rewire the complete building or buy fire preventive equipment. The government will have to provide us with all such equipment, including fire extinguishers," said a vendor in the market.
 Kolkata: Parents-in-law are going hi-tech, treating their sons-in-law to delicious Hilsa and mutton this Jamai Sashthi. With fresh Hilsa running out, courtesy the prohibition on fishing, stored fish bought online is the only cheer for the soshur-sahuris and jamais alike, for the big day today.  In an age of advanced technology and apps, a mere click of a mouse is enough to fetch the elusive Hilsa to the doorsteps, saving the in-laws the anxiety to find the right Ilish at the fish market. Online grocer dailybazar.com is one of the portals to ensure the silver from cold storages is delivered to homes. "Since Wednesday, we have made special arrangements to supply Hilsa and mutton to the doorsteps of parents-in-law to help them prepare sumptuous spreads for their jamais. We have deployed a team of 30 bikers who are on standby to rush and deliver orders that can be placed on our website. We are supplying Hilsa at a minimum of Rs 400-500 a kg below the market rate. Our standard price for a fish, weighing 1.2 kg, is Rs 1,300. Smaller varieties, weighing between 600 and 800 gm, will be priced at Rs 600 per kg. We accept payments in cash," said Abhirup Basak of dailybazar.com, which has been in business for a year now.  An initiative of five city-based engineers, the startup was floated to facilitate online shopping in Kolkata. For jamai sashthi, the portal stocked up Hilsa in one store in south Kolkata and two in south Kolkata. The fish will be supplied across the city and beyond, such as Barrackpore, Barasat, Behala and Narendrapur. "Orders placed on jamai sashthi morning will be delivered latest by the afternoon so that sorshe Ilish or bhapa ilish can be maded well on time for jamais' dinner treat," Basak said.  With the authorities strictly enforcing the 60-day fishing ban from April 15 till June 14, fresh Hilsa has stopped arriving at the market. "Some catch from the Padma is being smuggled. But this supply is absolutely negligible," said Shibu Ghosh, a fish wholesaler on the Petrapole border. "This year, the state and central governments are keeping a watchful eye to ensure the fishing prohibition is observed during the breeding season. So, fishermen aren't going out to the sea in any of the fishing hubs of Diamond Harbour, Digha or Kolaghat. Some are dodging the ban but the catch they bring in is too little to even take note of," said Ghosh. Kakdwip Fishermen's Association secretary Bijon Maity echoed Ghosh.  New Market fish seller Bijoy Sahu said, "We are selling only stored Hilsa this Jamai Sashthi. Most of the supply is catch from Bangladesh, Dharuj in Gujarat and Odisha. Many of our regular customers have left their numbers with us and asked us to call when we have fresh Hilsa."
KOLKATA: A 30 year old youth, an electrical shop owner was shot at by some miscreants at Mohanpur under Titagarh police station in Barrackpore on Thursday night. The victim Dipankar Das alias Babu was rushed to the Barrackpore BN Bose Hospital from where he was later shifted to a private hospital on EM Bypass in Kolkata after his condition deteriorated. Police said that the incident took place around 9:45 pm on Thursday while Das was sitting inside the ground of Unnayan Samity Club in Kalitala.According to local sources the two miscreants came on a motorbike and fired twice at Dipankar and fled the spot. Das was struck by two bullets in his stomach and on his back. He slumped on the ground. Locals took Das to the nearby hospital where he received the initial treatment.After being informed a police team from Titagarh police station rushed to the spot. The police are still patrolling the area.DC (DD) of Barrackpore Commissionarate Ajay Thakur said, "Das was shot at by the duo who were named by him at the hospital. Raids are on to nab the culprits. The motive behind the attack is yet to be ascertained."Local sources however claimed Das is known to be an active Trinamool Congress worker and the attack on him may be a fall out of a rivalry between two TMC factions.
KOCHI: Even as the controversy over Bollywood film Udta Punjab boils over, the Punjabi community in the city expressed mixed views on the censorship row. The film on the rising drug menace in the state of Punjab has Shahid Kapoor and Alia Bhatt in the lead roles. While sharing some apprehensions about the negative impact the film could have on the state's image, the community was quite vocal about the rampant drug use in Punjab.Vicky Singh, who runs a Punjabi dhaba in Kadavanthara, said the menace has deeply affected rural Punjab. "There is need for someone to take a step towards curbing the drug menace in Punjab. If the movie triggers some action from the side of authorities, then it will be a good start," he said. Vicky's family migrated to Kochi from Patiala decades ago. "Tobacco smoking is prohibited for Sikhs. Drugs were introduced in the state by migrant labourers from Bihar. In the 1980s and 1990s, the youth of Punjab used to be rebellious and held extremist views. It is said that they were deliberately introduced to narcotics to subdue their aggressive behaviour," said Vicky.Another section of Punjabis in Kochi, meanwhile, think the films would tarnish the image of Punjab. "At least in the mind of people here, Punjab has an image of a fertile state with big prospects for development. A movie with such a name would taint the name of Punjab," said Bunty Singh, a Punjabi born and brought up in Kochi.The movie came into the spotlight when the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC), chaired by the BJP-appointed Pahlaj Nihalani, demanded as many as 89 cuts.The makers of the movie have approached the Bombay high court against the board's decision. The ruling party in Punjab, Akali Dal, had objected to the movie earlier. Sources indicate that there's political pressure in the wake of state elections slated early next year.
The Eloor police have arrested a 24-year-old on charge of possessing 30 nitrazepam tablets for illegal sale. The arrested has been identified as Johny of Kalamassery. A case has been registered against the accused under Section 22(A) of NDPS Act. He was produced before the magistrate.   One arrested for illicit liquor sale: The Eloor police on Thursday held a 43-year-old man for selling illicit liquor. The arrested has been identified as Murukan of Eloor. He was held with 3.9 litres of illicit liquor. The accused was produced before magistrate on Thursday.   Sea turns rough in Chellanam: The coastal areas near Chellanam witnessed rough sea on Thursday. Houses and roads were damaged in areas near Chellanam, Njarakkal and Puthuvypeen.   Naturopathy class: A naturopathy class on monsoon diseases by Dr Azad Bose will be held at Theosophical Society Hall, Pallimukku at 5pm.   Entrepreneurship meet: Regional round of Educon 2016 will be held at Fisat Engineering College, Angamaly, on Saturday. Paul Mundadan, chairman, Fisat, will lead the meet. Theme is 'Innovation and Entrepreneurship- Preparing Leaders for Tomorrow.'   Travel exhibitions: Tushar Gandhi, chairman of Mahatma Gandhi Foundation, will inaugurate two travel exhibitions on Tibet at Museum of Kerala History, Edapally, at 5.30pm on Sunday. He will also deliver a lecture on nationalism at St Albert's College at 10am on Monday.   MTech results published:  Cusatwill release the first allotment results for MTech courses except marine engineering on Friday. Admissions will begin at 10am. For details, visit www.cusat.nic.in.
Kolkata, Jun 10 () A 20-day car expedition, to promote women's health and cancer awareness, will start from Gurgaon on June 18 to the rough Himalayan terrain by a women organisation.  Nidhi Tiwari, founder of 'Women Beyond Boundaries' (WBB) will be driving a 4,000 km route, starting June 18, through challenging terrain along with her navigator.  Tiwari and her navigator Neha V Sadananda are expected to complete the route in 20 days.  "With the spirit of women empowerment and highlighting a sensitive cause of women's health and cancer awareness in the remotest corners of the country, we believe we are going beyond all perceived and conventional boundaries. We are equally excited to get behind the wheel of the vehicle," Nidhi said.  The drive will test the endurance of participants on some of the highest motorways in the world and test the off-road capabilities across different terrain as well as riverbeds.  The riders will pass through more than a dozen high-altitude passes, including Khardung La and Marsimik La, two of the highest motorable passes in the world.  WBB is an organisation which runs extreme overland journeys (XOL) that push boundaries to achieve empowerment through mobility, Nidhi said.  As part of its core mission, WBB team will also train local women in Ladakh on the topic of XOL driving to motivate their movement between remote communities. This will be done with the help of the local administration and community participation.  In addition, the expedition will also interact with local communities to spread awareness on women's health in collaboration with a reputed local NGO.  Porsche India has partnered with the WBB on the 20-day expedition across the Himalayas providing a Cayenne car for this trip, Pavan Shetty, Director of Porsche India, said in a release. SUS MM AMS
IDUKKI: In a curious case, the Sivagiri Mutt intervened and issued a marriage document to a couple from Kattappana after the Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam denied the same. It was claimed that SNDP Yogam refused it on the grounds that the girl's family were CPM sympathizers. After PS Sreejith, son of Soman P, Adimali and Jisha, daughter of Chandran Valiyaparambil, Marykulam were denied the document, the couple contacted Sree Narayana Dharma Vedi, who in turn contacted the Sivagiri Mutt and arranged the document. After getting it, their marriage was conducted at Kattappana town hall.Family members said that the decision taken by the SNDP Yogam was quite unbecoming and they were thankful to the Vedi for helping them in the matter. Jisha is employed in the Gulf, Sreejith owns a resort in Adimaly.Sree Narayana Dharma Vedi vice-chairman K K Pushpangadan said that such events should not recur. "When some families questioned certain decisions taken by SNDP members, they did not take it kindly. Their double standards were questioned and these folks had a hard time when it came to getting documents from the organization. If any such people face similar difficulties, we will intervene and do what is necessary," he said.Meanwhile, president of Malanadu SNDP Yogam Union, Biju Madhavan replied that he was not aware of this incident. "SNDP Yogam members work with various political parties and we don't have any problem with their political affiliations. All active members are given necessary documents without bias. If they were denied something, it might be due to some other reason that I'm unaware of," he said.
Kolkata (West Bengal), June 10 (ANI-Businesswire India): Adda52.com, India's largest poker site, is once again stepping up with its prestigious online tournament "Adda52 Millions" offering Rs. 2,000,000 in the prize pool. In the month of June, India's largest online poker site is gaming upon to attract each and every poker player - from amateurs to poker pros and from direct entrants to satellite qualifiers.  Thanks to the increasing popularity of this tournament that the poker site has made an increment of extra 5 Lacs in the prize pool of Adda52 Millions jumping from Rs. 1,500,000 to 2,000,000. Out of the 20 Lacs prize pool, Rs. 15 Lacs will be given away as the guaranteed prize money and 30% will be apportioned as locked bonus to the players who finish in money. The player who gets the first bad beat (any quad hand beaten by a higher hand) will get an additional Rs. 50,000 as bad beat jackpot. Indian poker players can book a seat to the finale by playing daily satellites that have already started on June 1, and will run till June 21. The players can also play deadline satellites from June 22 to 26 June 26 to book a seat for the Adda52 Millions Finale or can directly get an entry to the finale with a buy-in of Rs. 10,000 on June 26, 2016.  Furthermore, to reinforce the poker playing experience, Adda52.com has launched a fresh big guarantee namely, "Adda52 Mini Millions" with a prize pool of Rs. 1,000,000. Out of the 10 Lacs prize pool, Rs. 7 Lacs will be allocated as the guaranteed prize money and 30% will be apportioned as locked bonus to the players who finish in money. This exclusive tournament will be hosted on the third Sunday of every month, and players can enter this tournament with a buy-in of Rs. 5,500 + 1,000. Players will be eligible to get Rs. 1000 as a bounty for every player they knock out in the tournament. Scheduled to take place on June 19, 2016, this new promotion will be the juvenile of Adda52 Millions which will incorporate the following:  Players will have an option to re-enter once in the tournament until the late registration closes.  The blind structure will start at 25/50 with 15,000 in starting stack, and with every level of 10 minutes.  Top 10 bounty hunters (minimum 4 and above bounties) will be rewarded a cumulative prize of Rs. 90,000.  This is for the first time that the Indian market leader in online poker is offering Rs. 30 Lacs in prize money on the last two Sundays of every month. Adda52.com has and will always continue to provide the most secure and memorable experience to the poker players, holding on to its commitment of hosting the biggest guaranteed promotions. (ANI-Businesswire India)
Kozhikode: Taking into account the number of accidents caused by thoughtlessly crossing railway tracks, the Railways launched a level-cross safety awareness drive. The move is to educate maximum number of school students and common public about the need to follow the directions while crossing railway tracks at level crosses and other places. The campaign was flagged off at Kozhikode Railway station on Thursday by station manager Joseph Mathew.Though the level crosses will be closed ahead of the arrival of trains, it is a common sight that many school children and others cross the level cross on foot. Cyclists also cross railway tracks when the gate is closed. The awareness drive focuses on initiating people not to cross level crosses when the gate is clos ed. Crossing the gate when red signal, flag, or stop board is seen is also dangerous.People should also make sure that vehicles should not enter the track when the gate boom is lowering, said railway officials. Use of mobile phone, while walking along the railway track also can prove dangerous, the official added. Any violation of rules regarding the crossing of railway cross is punishable with three year imprisonment under section 130 and 131 of Motor Vehicle Act, the official said. Railway is also distributing leaflets mentioning the directions to be followed while crossing railway tracks.
Karwar: Fourteen crew members of a merchant ship which was stranded in the Arabian Sea, 15 nautical miles off Karwar coast, were rescued by the personnel of Indian Navy and Coast Guard on Wednesday night.  According to M S Rajan, PRO, Coast Guard unit in Karwar, all the crew members were safely rescued in the mid-sea operation. The ship MV Infinity with Panama flag was sailing to Karwar from Kandla port in Gujarat. The ship encountered a problem when sea water gushed inside at around 8pm.  Since there were no pumps to clear the water, the crew members alerted the Coast Guard through an SOS, fearing that the ship would sink. A Coast Guard ship, Amal, rushed with a tug and rescued the crew members. A navy ship INS Trikhand, which was in the vicinity, also rushed to the spot to help MV Infinity. After flushing out the water, the ship developed a technical snag in the engine and could not be moved. However, it was towed till Karwar port on Thursday evening. The operation took over 22 hours.
KOCHI: The Kochi-based Southern Naval Command despatched a Druv advanced light helicopter (ALH) and two divers after a fishing boat reportedly wrecked off Alappuzha coast on Friday. The location of the wreckage is off Wadakkal, south west of Alappuzha light house. According to Navy spokesperson, rescue operations are underway to save four people in the water.Navy spokesperson added that the chopper and divers were immediately despatched to the location after receiving a request from district collector, Ernakulam.The Coast Guard has also launched a Chetak helicopter with two divers to assist rescue operations, said sources.The wreckage reportedly occurred in the morning hours on Friday. The incident came to light after people spotted ruins of the wrecked boat at Alappuzha beach.
Kochi/Thiruvananthapuram: Olympian Anju Bobby George may quit the office of Kerala State Sports Council president after she was "humiliated" by sports minister E P Jayarajan. The lone Indian to win a medal in World Athletics Championship, Anju said Jayarajan told her that she was clinging onto the KSSC president's post and since she being a Congress worker, the LDF government would have to rethink about her future as the sports council chief."This is the ultimate humiliation I have faced in my life. I have no political affiliation. We came to meet the minister with six months' progress card," she said. "The minister dubbed me and my team as corrupt," Anju said. KSSC vice-president Ibrahim Kutty had accompanied her to the secretariat to meet the minister.Anju, settled in Bengaluru, took over as KSSC president, an honorary post, in November last, when the UDF government was in power. Jayarajan denied Anju's allegation. "Our discussions were cordial and she left my office smiling," the minister said. Chief minister Vijayan, who reportedly had pacified Anju earlier, defended Jayarajan on Thursday. "The UDF government had granted undue benefits to Anju Bobby George which could not be justified.The minister questioned it and it cannot be termed as insult," he said. Vijayan said she had not made any complaint of insult. "The previous government had given benefits like air tickets for the sports council president which we feel should be avoided. This has been communicated to her,'' he told reporters.With the chief minister backing Jayarajan, Anju's days as state sports council president seemed to be numbered. "I will discuss with my team and decide on my future as KSSC president," clarified Anju, who at 39, had become the youngest to reach the coveted position.Congress leader faces heat for faux pasAfter Kerala sports minister E P Jayarajan was trolled on social media for his gaffe describing late Muhammad Ali as a Keralite,former sports minister and Congress leader K Sudhakaran also faced the heat for a faux pas while coming out in support of Olympian Anju Bobby George.While attacking Jayarajan for allegedly insulting Anju with "corruption" charges, Sudhakaran told a TV channel "who dosen't know Anju? Not just Anju, her husband, Jimmy George and his entire family who had dedicated their life for sports."Sudhakaran had mentioned late Jimmy George, a great volleyball player and the first Indian to become a professional player for a club in Italy, as Anju's husband. Anju is married to Jimmy's brother Robert Bobby George, a former national champion in triple jump, who had been her coach.
KOLKATA: The West Bengal government has come up with new floor area ratio (FAR) rules that will benefit and encourage developers to create more open space, greenery, landscaping, more car parking space and roads within a project area. The new notification issued by the state urban development department mentions - "For planning of the township project, the FAR shall be calculated on the entire project area, irrespective of the use of the area reserved for basic urban infrastructure amenities and basic urban infrastructure facilities, with the concept of global floor area ratio. The global floor area ratio will be determined on the basis of the width of the means of access abutting the proposed township.With more FAR, price could be reduced as developers would now be encouraged to keep open space, car parking and roads within the total project area, city based architects opined.According to the guidelines that has been framed, 25% of a township land has to be earmarked for thematic or economic development for which the township is proposed. Besides, 25% of the total residential units have to be reserved for the economically weaker sections.
Kolhapur: The state government's plan to construct more number of lakes and cement weirs inside forest areas is finally taking shape with Rs 2.34 crore sanctioned for the plan as a first instalment for Kolhapur, Aurangabad and Dhule districts.The total project cost is Rs 13 crore. It aims at making provision of sufficient water and increase percolation for ground water recharge. The forests in the three districts too have been hit by water scarcity which results in wild animals venturing into human habitats where fodder is available in the form of crops.The remaining amount will be sanctioned once new proposals are submitted.The state finance department has already issued a circular stating that proposed capital expenditure for the financial year 2016-17 should be utilised completely. The expenditure was fixed for three districts only; hence the state finance department has so far received proposals worth Rs 2.34 crore from Kolhapur, Aurangabad and Dhule.The proposals were cleared by the forest department headquarters in Nagpur on May 25.The state government has already expressed its intent of improving the quality of forest in the state. The ideal green cover has to be 33% of the total geography of the state, while the actual green cover is merely 20%. The state is also facing another challenge of existing forest losing its thickness, chiefly because of illegal tree-felling for various reasons, including fuel, smuggling and furniture purpose among others.Out of the three selected districts, Dhule and Aurangabad are known as arid regions of the state while Kolhapur is known for its surplus rainfall. Shirol and Hatkanangale tehsils in Kolhapur are exceptions as they hardly have any forest. The rest of the 10 tehsils get good rainfall and have dense to medium thick forest cover.Activists have time and again demanded better network of check dams, weirs, water holes inside the forest area to improve the forest cover as well as to support wildlife.
KOCHI: The high court on Thursday held that private parties don't have the right to join in CBI's case challenging a special court's order discharging present chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and six others in SNC-Lavalin graft case. The court accepted CBI's contention that it alone can argue the case, being the prosecuting agency, and that revision petitions filed by third parties would damage their case. Justice B Kemal Pasha issued the order after considering a total of five petitions to implead in the case, including those by Crime magazine editor T P Nandakumar, K M Shajahan, and K R Unnithan, who was a member of the E Balanandan committee that probed the 1996 deal that took place when Vijayan was the power minister. The petitioners had argued that they have locus standi as the matter relates to corruption involving a huge amount of public money.CBI's counsel countered saying that no outsider has any locus standi to interfere in the matter as the accused were discharged and not acquitted by the CBI special court. If it was an acquittal and the prosecuting agency had not filed an appeal, a private person who is aggrieved can prefer a revision petition challenging the acquittal. In the present case, CBI has filed an appeal and it has been done within the time prescribed. If any private person is permitted to poke his nose in the matter at this stage, it will adversely affect the case of the CBI.Senior counsel M K Damodaran, who represented Vijayan, submitted that an order of discharge is passed by the lower court only considering the final report filed by police and the documents submitted along with it. Any person other than prosecution, including the accused, have no right to produce any document for verification by the court at that time.Dismissing the petitions, the court said, "When the revision petition filed by the prosecuting agency is disposed of, that will be the end of all other revisions." Further, the court said none of the impleading petitioners had challenged the actions of CBI in investigating the matter.
 Kolkata: The tobacco-to-FMCG-to-hospitality conglomerate, ITC Ltd, is creating a new brand to make inroads into the territory of Amul and Nestle. ITC which is aiming to cross Rs 10,000crore mark in foods business is launching a dairy whitener under newly created Sunfresh brand. The first offering from ITC in dairy segment was ghee, which was an extension of Aashirbad brand.  The dairy whitener market is over Rs 1500crore category and growing at 6% compounded annual growth rate. It is more of duopolistic segment with two major brands owning 86% share - Nestle's Everyday at 48% and Amulya (from Amul) at 38%. Britannia is another player in this market. Interestingly, 61% of the category resides in three key markets - north east (Rs 384 crore), West Bengal (Rs 310 crore) and Kerala (Rs 147 crore).  An official said that ITC will try to penetrate these priority markets with Sunfresh Dairy Whitener. The food brands of ITC include Aashirvaad, Aashirvaad Svasti Ghee, Sunfeast (Dark Fantasy, Delishus, Farmlite, Yumfills and Mom's Magic), Bingo! (Yumitos, Tangles, Mad Angles, Tedhe Medhe), YiPPee!, B Natural!, Candyman, mint-o, GumOn and Kitchens of India. ITC is the only diversified conglomerate whose food business has crossed $1 billion mark.  On the launch of dairy whitener under Sunfresh brand, ITC executive director Sanjiv Puri said, "Our intention is to craft differentiated and value-added products in the dairy segment which would be hallmark of quality.  Elaborating the details, he added that as far as the foray into the dairy segment is concerned, ITC has at the outset worked extensively with farmers on creating a strong backend. The focus was on developing a robust supply chain and to ensure the procurement of safe and hygienic milk of the highest quality.  Sunfresh Dairy Whitener is the second product from ITC's dairy portfolio. Manufactured at ITC's own manufacturing facility in Munger (Bihar), Sunfresh Dairy Whitener will be first introduced in North East. An ITC official said 65 quality tests are performed on Sunfresh Dairy Whitener - from milk to powder - thereby ensuring consistent quality and delightful taste every time.  Packed in convenient pack formats - Sachets available in Rs 5 & Rs 10 packs and bigger quad packs available in 200g and 400g packs. "Sunfresh Dairy Whitener will be available in varied and convenient sizes to suit all kinds of consumer needs," the official added.
Malappuram: An Oxford-educated Keralite, who fled London three days before a UK court convicted him for child rape, sought refuge at his family home in Parappanangadi here for a few days but has now gone missing.On June 2, Oxford Crown Court found Vijesh Kooriyil, a 29-year-old business manager who studied computer science in Coimbatore and went to Oxford to pursue an MBA, guilty of rape and sentenced him to 23 years in prison.It is learnt that Kooriyil, who left the UK on May 30, arrived here with his wife on June 1. He went into hiding last Sunday morning, after reports of the court verdict appeared in the media. A manhunt is on for Kooriyil."Vijesh Kooriyil deployed the all-too-familiar ways of gaining a child's trust. He would often call the boy to come and play with him. Some of those games were innocent enough, but others took place in the defendant's bedroom," Judge Peter Ross was quoted as saying in his sentence. "It was there, having secured the door with string and a nail, that the defendant began to rape a 6-year-old, then 7-year-old boy," the judge added. Kooriyil's family told TOI they were shocked to hear about the charges. They assumed that Kooriyil, who had married a Palakkad woman a year ago, had come home on leave.
KOCHI: The Cochin Port Trust (CPT) has decided to lease out land in Willingdon Island for organic farming. The trust also proposed to plant 500 more saplings in the port area and on its office premises during the monsoon season. A few saplings were planted by CPT chairman G Senthilvel near Samudrika Convention Centre on Sunday, as part of World Environement Day observance. As part of its green port initiatives, the port trust will establish a 150KW rooftop solar plant at the port substation.
KOLKATA: Veteran director Goutam Ghose was part of the Shyam Benegal-led panel that was formed by the Information and Broadcasting Ministry to look into matters related to the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC). The acclaimed director spoke to TOI about his views on the 'Udta Punjab' controversy. Excerpts:Have you completed the entire process of recommendation for the CBFC?We have submitted a report that says we want scissor-less censorship. We have given recommendations for gradations. But we are not in favour of cuts.Is a part of the report still pending?There is a subsidiary section that is pending. That includes decisions regarding the animal welfare board and smoking etc. The rest of the report is complete.What do you have to say about the raging controversy regarding 'Udta Punjab'?I have not seen the film. But I don't support any cuts. I respect freedom of speech. It is guarded by Article 19(1)(a) in the Constitution of India. I support freedom of expression and right to free speech. Yet, there are some sensitive issues including communal instigation and sedition that have to be taken into account. In our Constitution, the fundamental right was limited by Article 19 (2). Issues regarding what can constitute communal instigation and sedition are very subjective. What could be sedition in my eyes might not be so in the eyes of someone else. So, it is a tricky area. That's why we need to have some kind of a protection considering our nation has so many people with varied concerns. In case of films that handle such subjects, such controversies can happen. The CBFC can give grades. But if there are chances of communal instigation, certification can be refused. The makers can then go to the Film Certification Appellate Tribunal (FCAT). Records say in most such cases, the CBFC never wins. But the larger question here is why in India do we even need censorship on cinema when there is no such thing for television, theatre, music and literature? Why is this need to monitor cinema? Television is more popular than cinema. Yet, it has no censorship!Do you think the word 'Punjab' should not be used in the film?Why shouldn't the word Punjab stay? I don't have a problem with the use of the name of state in the film per se.Numerous Indian film titles have been cleared using the names of destinations. Anurag Kashyup's "Gangs of Wasseypur" is one such instance. But in "Udta Punjab"'s case, there is a group that says that the use of the name of the state might tarnish its image. What do you have to say to that?If use of a name of a place is in a harmful context, CBFC will then have its say. But then again, harmful is a subjective term. Use of names of people and their portrayal in films can have subjective interpretations. For many, Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale was a superhero. For others, he was not. A film on this subject could go into a tricky zone.The same dilemma might happen if a film on Nathuram Godse is made...True. In cases of dilemma, the Board can say that it will not certify the film. But there will be no cuts. When we were discussing all these issues at the Shyam Bengal-led panel, we counted that among 500 films only one or two face such problems.It has been pointed out that in frequent complaints about censorship vis-a-vis film certification, many have often jumped the gun and started talking about the controversy in the media without approaching higher authorities that have been vested with power to settle disputes. Is this the new-age marketing strategy that ensures free publicity?(Laughs) Well, there are so many new tools of marketing a film.In most cases, the controversy is becoming national news even when there are provisions that a maker dissatisfied with the decisions of the reviewing committee can always approach the FCAT which is headed by a retired justice!Here, I can only say that Chomsky has had the last word. It is all about "manufacturing consent".
KOCHI: The District Emergency Operation Centre (DEOC), responsible for relief operations in the district, will get a makeover soon. The centre had failed to deliver during the recent ammonia leakage in a barge at Champakara. "The centre will undergo a revamp to effectively deal with disasters, especially in view of reports of heavy rains. Conventional communication systems will be replaced with modern techniques," said Beena P Anand, who is in-charge of district disaster management authority .The DEOC, chaired by district collector M G Rajamanickam, is currently situated adjacent to the collector's chamber at civil station, Kakkanad. Sources confirmed that the centre would be allotted new space at Collectorate.Now, the project awaits governement approval. The revamped centre will have exclusive video conferencing facility and VSAT (very small aperture terminal) will be installed for communication over satellite. The emergency responder will be implemented with the support of Disaster Management Authority.Also, the new office will have fully furnished rest rooms for rescue personnel. All machines will be purchased under the supervision of technical wing at the Collectorate.
Lucknow, Jun 10 () With stage set for tomorrow's polling for 11 Rajya Sabha seats in Uttar Pradesh, for which an extra candidate is in the fray, leaders of all major parties today took stock of their numbers as the possibility of cross voting loomed large. 34 first preference votes are needed for the victory of a candidate. In the 403-member Assembly, SP has 229 MLAs, BSP 80, BJP 41 and Congress 29. The rest belong to small parties or are Independents who hold the key. Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), which has eight MLAs, has promised to transfer its votes to Samajwadi Party and Congress. Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) has 80 MLAs and with 34 first preference votes needed for the victory of a candidate, the party can easily ensure success of its two nominees with 12 votes to spare. Mayawati has, however, kept the suspense over which way her 12 surplus MLAs will vote in Rajya Sabha biennial polls, saying the results will show the voting pattern. "Whom we have supported, whom we have not supported, everything will be clear when the results come out," she told reporters yesterday when asked which way the 12 MLAs will go. BSP has fielded Satish Chandra Mishra and Ashok Sidharth. BJP has fielded Shiv Pratap Shukla whose victory is certain. The nomination of social worker Preeti Mahapatra, who forced a contest by jumping in the fray as an Independent, was proposed by 16 BJP MLAs, rebel SP MLAs and some members of smaller parties and Independents. BJP will be left with 7 surplus votes which might go to Mahapatra, who will have to manage a chunk of votes for win. Ruling Samajwadi Party has fielded seven candidates but its seventh candidate is short of nine first-preference votes. On the other hand, Congress, which has 29 MLAs, needs five more votes for victory of its candidate and former Union minister Kapil Sibal, who now feels comfortable with RLD's backing. Rajya Sabha candidates in the fray are -- Amar Singh, Beni Prasad Verma, Kuwar Rewati Raman Singh, Vishambhar Prasad Nishad, Sukhram Singh Yadav, Sanjay Seth and Surendra Nagar (all SP), Satish Chandra Mishra and Ashok Sidharth (both BSP), Kapil Sibal (Cong), Shiv Pratap Shukla (BJP) and Preeti Mahapatra (Ind). SMI RG
KOCHI: On the occasion of the 'International Level Crossing Day', which is being observed on Friday throughout the world, Union minister Nitin Gadkari has asked the Railways to give clearance to the alignment of the Pallikkara railwayover-bridge (ROB), near Neeleswaram in Kasaragod district, within this week, thus reviving the hope that the stalled work of the project would start soon.The minister asked the Railways to approve the alignment and submit the report in a meeting that he chaired in New Delhi on Wednesday, said Kasaragod MP P Karunakaran. Though the work of the bridge began more than 15 years back, it was held up due to various reasons and this affected the traffic on the crowded stretch of the National Highway 66 here.The ROB is being constructed under the 'Sethubharatam' scheme of the central government and the site was inspected by the officials of the Railways, National Highway Authority and Revenue Department, who later prepared the alignment. Once the Railways gives approval to the alignment, the consultancy would prepare the detailed estimate, said S K Sinha, managing director of Chaitanya Consultancies, which is the consultancy for the project. Once the estimate is approved the technical hurdles would be cleared and the work could start soon, according to the MP. There are two projects under 'Sethubharatam' in the State, he added.This is the only ROB which is yet to be completed on the National Highway 66 between Mumbai and Kasaragod district, said P Karunakaran.
Kota: A Jaipur-based NGO has been selected to conduct workshops on depositors' education in Jaipur, Kota, Udaipur, Ajmer, Chittorgarh, Bhilwara and Jodhpur in Rajasthan. Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has launched the Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEAF) Scheme 2014 to utilise unclaimed funds to promote interests of depositors, said the NGO CUTS' director, George Cherriyan. As per information provided in Parliament in December 2013, Rs 3,652 crore of unclaimed deposits were lying in Indian banks. Of this, Rs 340 crore was deposited with private banks and Rs 75 crore with foreign banks, he added.The fund would be utilised to promote depositors' interests and for such other purposes as may be specified by RBI, said CUTS senior programme coordinator Deepak Saxena. PTI
KOCHI: The control room vehicles (CRV) of Kochi city police have been upgraded with video recording facility to help them during emergencies. The CRVs will now have tablets that will enable policemen to use GPS-enabled navigation service and receive live updates from police control room. The CRVs are equipped with two high quality video cameras in the front and rear. The cameras can take videos up to a distance of 30 yards and operate at night with the assistance of LED lights. The video footages recorded using the CRV cameras will be saved in the control room."The facility is currently available in four CRVs in Kochi city apart from selected ones in Thiruvanathapuram and Kozhikode city. The cameras will be used during protests and agitations, to record violence and public damage. The footages will be handy for the police to find offenders in a violent crowd," said Kochi city DCP Arul R B Krishna.The control room of Kochi city police, which earlier had six-line telephone connectivity, has been upgraded to 30-lines to handle multiple calls at a time. Details of emergency calls received at the control room are currently passed to CRVs through wireless handsets. "In the next level, the tablets attached to CRVs will be enabled for receiving live alerts in the form of text messages from police control room. The tablets will also be upgraded for GPS-enabled navigation services," said an official manning one of the CRVs.
Chandigarh: Punjab Congress president Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced that he would release the uncensored copies of film 'Udta Punjab' in Majitha town of Amritsar on June 17, the scheduled date of the film release. He said since Majitha, like Mexico, was the epicentre of drug trade in Punjab, he had decided to release the film there.Amarinder has written to the producer of the film Ekta Kapoor and director Anurag Kashyap urging them to provide the uncensored CDs so that he could release it on the scheduled date to coincide with the worldwide premier of the film on June 17.The Congress leader said that the purpose of releasing the film in Majitha was to tell the Akalis and BJP that no matter to what extent they go to to gag the truth, he would expose it at any cost. "Not only do we want to highlight the harsh reality of Punjab, but also to assert the right to freedom of speech and expression guaranteed by our Constitution that is being infringed upon by the BJP at the behest of the Akalis using the Censor Board," he said in a letter to the film producers.He also stated that all legal onus of releasing the uncensored CDs of the film would be on him. "I guarantee you, that I will take the entire responsibility of legal implications, if any, for releasing the uncensored CDs as we want truth to be told no matter at what price," he said.The PCC president said that another reason why he chose Majitha for the release of the film was that the name (of the place) has become synonymous with 'chitta' (the synthetic drug) that has destroyed and devastated an entire generation in the state.Amarinder also clarified that in order to ensure that the commercial interests of the producers were not hurt, the film would be shown only on the day of release as protest and defiance against the dictatorial attitude of the Censor Board and also in border areas as people there rarely get a chance to watch films in theatres.Congratulating the producers for portraying harsh reality of Punjab on the big screen, the Amritsar MP said, "The people of Punjab acknowledge with heartfelt gratitude their (producers') efforts to present their plight to the world. And they will do everything to ensure that the noble purpose with which the film has been made is served well." At the same time the Congress leader took a dig at Censor Board chairman Pahlaj Nihalani for his unfailing devotion towards the BJP with his irrational attitude and utterances. "His behaviour during the ongoing controversy over 'Udta Punjab' is enough to remove and disqualify him for any such future assignments," Amarinder said.
KANPUR: Kanpur zoo will soon be home to a pair of lions. These lions will come here from Raipur zoo. The Central Zoo Authority(CZA) has given its nod for the exchange of the animals. The Kanpur zoo will give a pair of tigers to Raipur zoo in exchange. It will be by the end of next month that the lions will reach Kanpur zoo.   The CZA has also given its nod for getting leopard cats from Guhawati zoo. Kanpur zoo will get four leopard cats and three stump tailed macaque from Guhawati zoo. In return Kanpur zoo will give seven black bucks which are highly endangered species of deer and a hyena.   From Mysore zoo, Kanpur zoo will get four Lady Amherst Pheasants and in return the mystore zoo will receive Indian monkeys.   Talking to TOI, Kanpur zoo director, Deepak Kumar said that the all the animal exchanges from three zoos has been finalised and also the Central Zoo Authority has given its approval. Kumar said that the lions and all other animals would be brought here by the end of next month as by then weather will undergo a change as at present, weather is very hot and humid and this is not conducive for the lions. He also mentioned that we have tigers in excess and therefore, giving this big cat to other zoo would not be a problem. There are nine tigers in Kanpur zoo and even after giving two to Raipur zoo, Kanpur zoo will be left with seven tigers.   The last time that visitors were able to see the lions in Kanpur zoo was in October 2014 after which they had been sent to Lion Safari but they had died one after the other. Zoo vet RK Singh said that seeing lions would be a treat for the visitors who would be coming to Kanpur zoo. He said that all efforts are being made to make Kanpur zoo one of the best in the country where there are not only all kinds of animal but the greenery is dense too.
BHOPAL: For the convenience of consumers, pucca shades in area of 10X15 feet are being constructed at 2000 fair price shops in Madhya Pradesh.For this, Food and Civil Supplies Department has provisioned Rs 10 crore. State has 22,422 fair price shops. Of these, 18, 276 shops are in rural and 4,146 in urban areas. Construction of shades will also ensure safety of food grains, stated government authorities.Under PDS, online Apni Suvidha-Apna Ration (ASAR) project has been implemented in municipal limits of Bhopal, Indore and Khandwa. The system is being introduced in other cities of the state also in phases.Under the system, database of eligible families has been uploaded on central server. Under the system, online information will be provided about materials to be distributed through PDS shops.The eligible families whose database is uploaded on central server in these cities can purchase their quota of food grains from any fair price shop of their choice.
KOLKATA: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) is working out to develop WI FI hotspots across New Town. The authorities are preparing the bid documents to invite private firms for the project.The authorities have engaged KPMG as consultants to advise them as to how best to come up with a pan city solution in accordance with the Smart City Plan. The authorities had a long discussion with a power-point presentation in which KPMG suggested that there may be 70 odd public Wi Fi hotspots in different places of the township in bus stands, parks, markets, plazas and such other places where the first 30 minutes of high speed free internet will be provided to all. Also in certain public offices like the NKDA and PHE offices, broadband internet connection would be provided.Authorities said that there will also be provisions for giving house level broadband connection on demand at reasonable costs. The entire project would be implemented through private public partnership.
LUCKNOW: Polling to the 13 legislative council seats in Uttar Pradesh was marred by rumours of heavy cross-voting by MLAs keeping in mind the "secret ballot." On Friday, SP MLA Guddu Pandit and his brother Mukesh Sharma openly confessed they would not "give in to pressure" and vote for any party. Pandit, symbolically, accompanied Upendra Tiwari, BJPs Phaphna MLA, giving rise to rumours of his likely defection to the BJP. On Friday, former BSP MLA Rajesh Tripathi also said he has "lost faith" in the BSP leadership. Tripathi, however, did not clear the air on which party he will be moving to. He also dropped hints of a possible alignment with the BJP. Senior SP leader Shivpal Yadav later evaded questions on cross voting saying the alleged defectors were the only ones who could clear the air on the matter. Congress legislative party leader Pradeep Mathur on Friday said that 28 of 29 congress legislators have exercised their franchise. While Mathur denied allegations of cross voting in the congress and exuded confidence that Party's Amethi MLC nominee Deepak Singh would win, party insiders did not rule out the possibility of at least 5 to 6 defections by end of day. To win, a nominee needs 29 votes. SP has fielded 8, BSP 3, bjp 2 and congress one candidate to the legislative council polls.
Lucknow, June 10 (IANS) Voting for the 13 seats of the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Councilbegan here on Friday.   There are fourteen candidates for 13 seats. The voting was preceeded by hectic lobbying till late Thursday with both the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Congress spreading out a lavish dinner for its legislators.   The ruling SP has named Balram Yadav, Jagjivan Prasad, Kamlesh Pathak, Bukkal Nawab, Yashwant Singh, Ram Sunder Das Nishad, Ranvijay Singh and Shatrudra Prakash as its candidates.   The BSP has fielded Atar Singh Rao, Suresh Kashyap and Dinesh Chandra for the polls and the Congress has named Deepak Singh. BJP candidates include Bhupendra Singh and Daya Shanker Singh.   SP needs votes of 232 MLA's to sail through its eight candidates but there are reports of a bunch of them having decided to cross-vote.   Jittery about such a prospect, the party hosted a dinner for MLA's late on Thursday and even SP chief Mulayam Singh Yadav has been actively involved in "management".   The BSP has fielded three candidates and has 80 legislators. It needs seven extra votes.   The BJP with its 41 legislators, can get only one of its candidates through but by fielding an extra candidate it hopes to win over the Apna Dal, NCP and an independent MLA other than getting some votes from "other side of the fence".   Congress hopes to get through its sole candidate. It has 29 legislators in the House.   The Rashtriya Lok Dal has decided that four of its eight MLA's will vote for the Congress while the remaining would vote for SP candidates.   There is however anxiety in most parties as seven legislators did not turn up at the dinner thrown by the SP leadership, three at Congress's.   At least seven BSP legislators have been found to be "suspect" by its party high command. BJP too is finding it tough to find extra votes.   --IANS   md/py/
Ludhiana: The auction organized by Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA), on Thursday, turned out to be a flop show as authorities were able to auction only one property out of 57. According to information, GLADA invited bidders for auction of 10 shops-cum-offices and 44 shop sights at Chaura Bazaar and also for three commercial booths in Ludhiana district.Only a booth was auctioned for Rs 29,500 per sq metre against its reserved price of Rs 27,060. The reserve price of 10 shop-cum-offices was Rs 2,39,111 per square metre while the reserve price for shop sites on first floor was Rs 2,67,170.
Jhansi: An undertrial was found dead inside a barrack of Banda jail on Wednesday. He was found hanging from the grills of a window with a towel while his veins were slit. The piece of blade used was also recovered. He has been identified as Radheshyam of Pipeahari village in Pailani. He was lodged in Banda jail in connection with a murder. The jail authorities claimed the incident was a suicide, however, the family members alleged that Radheshyam was murdered. SP Banda RP Pandey said that a judicial inquiry has been initiated.
Lucknow: BSP chief Mayawati played up her Dalit-Muslim consolidation agenda on the eve of polling for UP legislative council on Thursday. On one hand, she organized a dinner, essentially for the Muslim legislators in the month of Ramzan, on the other, she asked her MLAs to give preference to the two Dalit nominees - Atar Singh Rao and Dinesh Chandra - over Suresh Kashyap, an OBC, on the voting day. On Thursday, BSP MLAs flocked to the party headquarters to meet the party chief. It wasn't only the party nominees for the legislative council but also the two BSP candidates for Rajya Sabha, Satish Chandra Mishra and Ashok Siddharth who attended. The BSP top brass ensured that the meeting and subsequent dinner remained a close-door event. Even the prospective party candidates were kept out of the meeting.A BSP functionary said the dinner marked a significant departure from earlier occasions where Mayawati remote-controlled such meetings which were presided over by her close aides like Swami Prasad Maurya, party's state president Ram Achal Rajbhar and general secretary Naseemuddin Siddiqui. This time, she flew down to Lucknow to keep the flock together. While BSP general secretary Swami Prasad Maurya said the meeting and the dinner were a scheduled event, sources said the dinner, organised at the party headquarters here, was mainly aimed to send out a message to her Muslim leaders.
 Lucknow: Students in Uttar Pradesh aspiring to be tutored by Anand Kumar among his 'Super 30' will have the chance to prove their mettle on June 19 when the Super 30 founder will hold entrance examinations in 11 districts spread across the state.  Announcing on Thursday that this was a step towards opening up a branch of his coaching classes for entrance into the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kumar said 10 meritorious students of Class X and 20 students from Class XII will be picked up for coaching at his Patna coaching centre following the entrance examinations.  The students thus selected will be given free-of-cost training and lodging. Kumar also declared a 85% cut off for students from general category, 75% for OBC category students, and 60% for SC-ST students, for appearing for the entrance examinations.  Exam centres have been set up in Allahabad, Lucknow, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Bareilly, Jhansi, Kanpur, Meerut, Moradabad and Azamgarh.  Showing the Samajwadi Party government's commitment to the youth, chief minister Akhilesh Yadav said 'Super 30', which prepares meritorious candidates from economically backward sections for the IIT-JEE, will now impart coaching to students from Uttar Pradesh also. "On the initiation of chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, the Super 30 has decided to coach poor students for the entrance examination to IITs," Kumar said. He also lauded the schemes of the state government in the field of education like the distribution of laptops and Kanya Vidyadhan Yojna.  Terming Kumar's efforts as "exemplary", Akhilesh hailed him for honing the untapped potential of poor children facing adverse conditions. "Often because of poverty, talented students fail to avail opportunities over which they have equal right...Kumar is providing that opportunity to them and by doing so, he is strengthening the society and country," he said.  The CM also launched a biography of Anand Kumar, written by Canada-based entrepreneur Biju Mathew who said he had captured Kumar's exemplary struggle in the book. On Thursday, the chief minister also felicitated Jhansi-based artist Amin Khan who made clay models in record time.  Aligarh MLA Zafar Alam also presented a "Vikas Ka Taala" to chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, which the laughing CM unlocked, as a symbol of the development and economic growth the SP government claimed it has unleashed on UP in its four years in power.
Kolhapur: Only a few pre-monsoon showers have exposed the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation's (KMC) lack of preparedness in handling waste, especially plastic, thermocol, glass and construction debris, which block nullahs and drainage lines of the city.Civic activists warn that flash floods could spell doom as rampant construction in several areas have resulted in debris being moved to places around nullahs. Lack of civic sense in using plastic and glass bottles, plastic bags and thermocol ruins the drainage system during the monsoon.The rain on Wednesday evening blocked roads in Rajarampuri, Shahupuri, Shukrawar Peth and adjoining areas. Drainage lines started overflowing, which resulted in flood-like situation for nearly two hours.Two factors contribute to this mess: firstly, the KMC's lethargy and second, irresponsible behaviour of the citizens. "We have already destroyed the natural drainage system of the city except parts of Jayanti nullah. So, we have to rely on artificial drainages. Now, these drainages are getting blocked due to plastic and construction waste," said Uday Gaikwad, city-based environmentalist, who prepared the 2014-15 environment status report for the KMC.Gaikwad said people do not separate wet and dry waste because the KMC doesn't compel them to do so. "This is the root cause of all problems. We dont have adequate dumping ground and land fill site as well. At present, we don't have an estimate of how much plastic waste generated in the city," he said. Burhan Naikawadi, a civic activist, blames the KMC for not implementing solid waste management rules. "This results in chaos. People who build homes do not bother about removing debris. They throw the construction waste on the banks of nullahs which later mixes with water during rains resulting in chocking of the entire system. Segregation of waste at source is the only solution to tackle the problem in future," said Naikawadi.At the mutton market in Rajarampuri, vendors regularly dump their waste in nearby drains. Food vendors in Shahupuri and Central Bus Stand too use gutter to dispose of waste.Rajendra Patil, acting head of the drainage department of KMC, said, "We urge citizens not to throw plastic bottles, glass and thermocol in gutters. But people have ignored our requests. We clear a drainage and visit the same place after couple of weeks, only to find bottles and carry bags choking the line again." Patil cited examples at Gokhale college area and at Parikh bridge where sanitation workers have removed piles of plastic bags, bottles and thermocol from the gutters.
 Lucknow: Doctors in KGMU will not be able to skip giving a lecture while students will not be able to fudge their attendance in class. This would happen with the medical university rolling out its plan to install biometric attendance system across its medical and dental wings.  The decision was taken at a meeting of the proctorial board held here on Thursday. Once in place, the attendance of a teacher or student would be marked only if he puts his/her thumb impression on a device installed outside the class or work area. The university was force to adopt the system after orders from the medical and dental councils of India. "In separate letters, the MCI and DCI have said that medical colleges/institutions may lose their recognition if they fail to install biometric system of attendance soon. And we have always abided by their orders," said KGMU VC Ravi Kant.  Sources said the university got the attendance records of its teachers and students checked on a random basis and found lapses. Some teachers were also issued warning letters but to no avail.
Jhansi: Targeting the state government, water rejuvenation minister and MP from Jhansi Uma Bharati said here on Thursday that the Mathura incident was preplanned and done with government backing. "The Mathura incident, in which Ramvriksha and his associates had occupied the public park, had political patronage. He was a mere pawn and the real people were the senior leaders of the ruling party in the state," she said.Bharati was here to distribute gas connections to the underprivileged later distributed tricycles to physically challenged people. Around 400 people got benefited.Bharati said that Ramvriksha had become so much politically powerful that at times he has thrashed the senior officers of Mathura with no action against him. Supporting her statement, she argued that for past two years, Ramvriksha and his supporters had unleashed terror in the area. They would beat anyone, who used to question them or raised objections but no action was taken. The senior leaders in the government were eyeing the huge property of Baba Jai Gurudev and Yadav was just a pawn in the hands of these leaders. "The Mathura incident has demoralized the state police," she said.
Ludhiana: The income tax department conducted a seminar at MC Zone-D office wherein Dr Gagan Kundra, deputy commissioner of income tax (TDS), Ludhiana, along with inspector Dinesh Punj and chartered accountant Piyush Jain addressed the gathering of drawing and disbursement officers (DDOs) and staff of the municipal corporation.Dr Kundra apprised the gathering about the importance of TDS, DDOs' responsibilities to deduct TDS and timely deposit the same and filing of returns and consequences in the form of penalties for non-compliance of income tax provisions.Inspector Dinesh Punj emphasized on the need to maintain proper record of returns filed, challans in lieu of outstanding TDS demands and defaults appearing on TRACES. CA Piyush Jain updated the audience on details regarding technical aspects of TDS matters, online features of TRACES comprising returns status, outstanding demand and other defaults and their rectification procedure. tnn
Lucknow, Jun 10 () Amid speculation over BJP's chief ministerial candidate for Uttar Pradesh, Home Minister Rajnath Singh today said there is no dearth of capable people in the party.  "UP mein kabil chehron ke koi kami nahi hai (There is no dearth of capable faces in UP)," he said when asked about BJP's chief ministerial candidate for the 2017 Assembly polls.  Speculation is rife ahead of BJP's national executive meeting in Allahabad that Singh could play a "lead role" in the party campaign for the UP polls even if he is not declared the choice for the top political office in the state.  Asked whether he would be made the party's face in UP, Singh, who is Lok Sabha member from Lucknow, said, "Yeh kalpnik prashna hai. Iska koi matlab nahi hai (This is a hypothetical question. It has no meaning)."  The possibility that the party could enter the UP arena with a chief ministerial candidate has gained currency after BJP's victory in Assam where it had declared the name of Sarbananda Sonowal months ahead of the contest.  As against this, the party had not declared a CM candidate in Bihar.  BJP sources said the party was treading cautiously in the state in view of caste politics as projection of Singh, who is a Rajput leader, could upset the Brahmin voters.  The Home Minister, one of the most prominent BJP leaders from Uttar Pradesh and former chief minister, asserted that his party would storm to power with a thumping majority in the 2017 election.  Singh was here on a two-day visit to the state.  He has been addressing rallies, along with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and party chief Amit Shah. He had addressed a public meeting in Mau yesterday.  BJP had won 71 of UP's 80 Lok Sabha seats in the 2014 general election. ABN SMI SMN SC SMN
 Lucknow: Here's a security system that could be a threat to passengers who load their luggage into the scanner.  In a reality check, TOI found that anyone can see the contents of the luggage placed in the scanner at Lucknow junction.  Security system itself could be a threat to those passengers who load their luggage into luggage scanner installed by security department of railway at northeastern railway of Lucknow Junction. In a reality check, TOI found anyone can see what is inside the bag on the scanning monitor.  Passengers expressed their anguish and demanded that the area should be covered.  "A luggage scanner is like an x-ray machine with high definition rays. The software is programmed to scan high density materials like arms, ammunition, glass bottles and metal objects," said a security official.  Obviously, the passengers aren't too happy. "I saw people observing my luggage through the monitor when I put my bags into the scanner. It could be a big threat to anyone carrying valuables. The security department could at least fix curtains around the monitor," said I.P Dwivedi, a passenger about to board Swarn Shatabdi (12003).  "I travel to Delhi frequently. Sometimes, I carry my fees and important documents. The railway security system must attend to this lack of security," said Kushagra Agarwal a passenger of Agra Intercity Express.  "I don't have issues with the security system. But installing scanning monitors in open areas could be a direct threat to passengers," said Rajveer Singh Rathore, another Swarn Shatabdi passenger. "We are working on an Integrated Security System which has been approved by the railway board. We would put up curtain walls around the scanning monitor," said Northeastern railway divisional manager A.K Singh.
 Lucknow: The Election Commission of India has gone to the micro level to keep the identity of voter MLAs a secret in the legislative council and Rajya Sabha elections.  According to the Election Commission, a pen can leave a mark clear enough to reveal the identity of an MLA. Therefore, EC rules make it mandatory for MLAs to use only the official pen, which would be available at voting centre for both the elections. No MLA will use a pen he or she might be carrying with them.  The pen, with violet ink, will be used to write the preference number for the candidate, additional chief election officer Rama Kant Pandey told TOI. The indelible ink or electoral ink used during general, assembly or other people's representatives elections is also violet in colour.  There are other measures too which EC has taken over a period of time to ensure the secrecy of the House member. No member is allowed to jot down numbers in words as handwriting in that case could give away the identity. It has to be numeric, an ECI official said. Anyone flouting instructions could end up being declared ineligible, another ECI official said.  The instructions were elaborated in detail for BJP MLAs in the evening meeting on Thursday, leader of the BJP in the House Suresh Khanna and BJP's chief whip Dr Radhan Mohan Das Agrawal confirmed. From UP, a total of 11 candidates will go to Rajya Sabha after the elections on June 11. However, independent candidate Preeti Mahapatra, backed by the BJP's extra MLAs, is the 12th candidate, thus inviting elections for the same.  Similarly, for Vidhan Parishad election, the BJP has fielded its second candidate Dayashanker Singh despite being short in numbers. A win for BJP's first candidate Bhupendra Chaudhary and second candidate Dayashanker Singh would be possible if the party has 58 MLAs. The actual strength of the BJP in UP assembly is 41 and in Vidhan Parishad, seven. This takes the total to 48.  For Preeti Mahapatra, there are seven votes to spare. Five others, including independents, single-party MLAs and two likely rebels-one each from SP and BSP-together make it 12 MLAs with her as of now.  Parties are thus are making hectic efforts to keep their flock together.  Chief whip of the BJP Agrawal and leader Khanna will be present inside the polling centre for Rajya Sabha as per the party instructions. No candidate is allowed to leave any sort of mark on the ballot paper while voting, even if it is a dot, they said. It could be assumed as a leading clue by a member and could reveal his identity.Khanna said that the MLAs would also be directed to vote on party lines. However, he confirmed that it was not a whip as Vidhan Parishad and Rajya Sabha elections are external activities and not House activities, but an instruction.
 Lucknow: Roads cut open at many places in Lucknow for repairing or laying new infrastructure have been left bare, causing inconvenience to locals and commuters alike. While contractors have been delaying covering them up, LMC and Jal Sansthan have also turned a blind eye. In most cases, poor coordination among the agencies has led to delay in restoration of roads. Locals fear if the roads aren't covered in time, monsoon would cause severe logging in areas.  Sapru Marg, a posh area, has been dug up for the past 20 days. It was excavated to lay sewer lines but has not been restored yet. Jal Sansthan claims that road has to be restored by PWD as the latter has been paid for restoration. Lack of coordination between Jal Sansthan and PWD has left the road as it was. Manoj, who has his office on the road, says, "We face jams on this road while coming to office because of construction work that's going on on half the road width. If it is not covered immediately, it would lead to severe logging in front of offices and shops." Similarly, sectors G and H of LDA colony are suffering for want of coordination between the contractor and LMC. The road was excavated almost four months ago for metalling it afresh. There was a plan to widen the drains as well so the drainage system has also been broken to make way for the new one. Rajajipuram's main road near the tempo stand was cut open in the middle to repair a supply pipeline by Jal Nigam. This road has been suffering with severe leakage for the past many months.
 Lucknow: Just short of the finishing line in the MLC race, political parties on Thursday ramped up efforts to keep their legislators in good humour and loyal to their parent political camps. Dinner diplomacy was the order of the day, with Samajwadi Party, Congress and Bahujan Samaj Party leadership and legislators breaking bread together in the last few hours before the "secret ballot" for the MLC polls on Friday. Polling for the Legislative Council elections will be held between 9am and 4 pm on Friday. The results will be announced post polls, on the same day.  To win an election to each of the 13 MLC berths falling vacant, a candidate needs 29 votes. While the SP has fielded eight candidates, the BSP has nominated three persons, Congress one, and the BJP two persons, thereby necessitating polls. According to their mathematical strength in the UP Assembly, while SP has 229 MLAs, the BSP has 80, BJP 41, and Congress 29.  The SP camp seemed one where palpitations were the loudest on Thursday. On paper, the party does not seem to be in a weak position in the Council polls, and is only short of three votes, but in reality, it faces the possibility of a house falling apart. At least a few sitting MLAs and ministers of the SP are "unhappy" with the Yadav first family. Even though SP chief Mulayam Singh Yadav and chief minister Akhilesh Yadav have attempted to apply the "healing touch" through a series of overtures last week, the troubles may not be over yet for the ruling party. Sources said over 10 MLAs did not attend the dinner hosted by Mulayam Singh Yadav on Thursday.  The Congress, meanwhile, projected confidence and claimed it was comfortably poised in the MLC polls.  On Thursday evening, the Congress leaders, dining at a prominent hotel in the city, put up a show of strength with senior leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad, Raj Babbar, Pramod Tiwari and Madhusudan Mistry trooping into Lucknow to support party nominees Deepak Singh of Amethi, and Kapil Sibal for the Rajya Sabha. Of its 29 MLAs, while Kaushal Kishor 'Munna' is expected to be present despite his illness, Nanpara MLA Madhuri Verma is almost certainly going to defect to the BJP camp. While the party claimed the rest of its MLAs will rally behind its nominees, insiders did not rule the possibility of cross voting, triggered largely by the "internal unpopularity" of the Congress nominee, and also because Friday's vote is a secret one, and therefore, defection, if any, will not be known.  The BJP, on the other hand, suffered a minor jolt on Thursday morning, when it called an emergency meeting of its party legislators on the back of reports that one of its legislators was likely to defect to the SP. While party leaders claimed that the situation was brought under control, and the legislator appeased, clouds of danger continue to hover over the saffron party.  The BSP, though seven short in the Council polls, also seemed at ease ahead of the Friday polls. Mayawati hosted her MLAs at dinner at the party headquarters in Lucknow. Amid claims of 100% attendance, party insiders said the BSP, in an election year, has become an attractive option for many dissenting MLAs from other outfits, and that the party's MLC candidates will, therefore, sail through to the Legislative Council comfortably.
Ludhiana: Universal Human Rights Organization has demanded that Indian government should take support of United Nations Organizations and the Interpol for letting NIA enter Pakistan for arresting the accused in Pathankot Airbase attack. President of the organization Satnam Singh Dhaliwal said that they have submitted a memorandum through the district administration. He said that it was a dark day in Indian history when Pakistan-aided terrorists attacked the airbase and caused major loss to the life and property. They have written in the letter that it was evident that terrorists hiding themselves in Pakistan had succeeded to design major attacks in India. "The nation had not yet forgotten Mumbai Taj Hotel attack; Pakistani terrorists again entered the country and made Pathankot its target. People of India and Pakistan are desirous of developing peaceful relations between the two nations. But presence of terrorist camps in Pakistan has not only endangered Indian territories but Pakistan as well".
 Lucknow: Ahead of the weekend battle of ballots for the legislative council and the Rajya Sabha, the Congress put up a show of strength, claiming it had the "confirmed votes" of 27 of its 29 MLAs in the UP assembly.  At the party's meeting on Wednesday, an official whip was issued to ensure the victory of its RS nominee Kapil Sibal and MLC nominee Deepak Singh. The party confirmed that its Nautanwa MLA Kaushal Kishore 'Munna', who is hospitalised, will not be able to exercise his ballot. In addition, Madhuri Verma, Congress' Nanpara MLA, who has remained absent from all party meeting over the past years, and whose husband has joined the ruling Samajwadi Party, is also unlikely to vote for the Congress. CLP leader Pradeep Mathur, however, claimed he was constantly in touch with Verma, urging her to vote for the Congress for the polls on Friday and Saturday.  While Verma's absence was not surprising, two other MLAs had voted in favour of BJP nominee Dayashankar Singh in the last MLC elections in UP, against the Congress high command's whip .  For the full story, log on to www.timesofindia.com
Ludhiana: Ludhiana Basketball Academy product Amjyot Singh would make a debut in 3x3 World Tour Utsunomiya going to be organized from July 30 at Utsunomiya in Japan. Significantly, Amjyot is expected to lead the team Agleyminia.EXE in the league.Amjyot is the first and only Indian hoopster to play in 3x3 World Tour Utsunomiya. Last year, Amjyot and another LBA player Amritpal Singh played in 5x5 league in Japan.Talking to TOI over phone from Japan, Amjyot said, "The 5x5 league was an amazing experience. Leagues always help you grow as a player. I am glad that selectors liked my performance in 5x5 league and selected me for 3x3 league."Singh said, "If I get chance to lead the team, it would be like a double delight for me."General secretary of Punjab Basketball Association and head of Ludhiana Basketball Academy, Teja Singh Dhaliwal said, "Such leagues play a great role in getting more opportunities. Every basketball expert keeps an eye on such leagues and many players are picked up from such leagues.""Moreover, Amjyot is the first and only Indian player to play in this league. So it is a great achievement for him."Hailing from Chandigarh, 24-years-old joined Ludhiana Basketball Academy (LBA) in 2009 and the very next year he captained the Punjab basketball team in Junior National Basketball Championship. Thereafter, Amjyot represented India at under-18 senior nationals.Besides, Amjyot represented India's national basketball team in FIBA Asian Championship in China. He was the overall second best scorer too in that event.
LUCKNOW: Early morning thundershowers kept temperatures below normal on Thursday and similar conditions are expected on Friday. Possibilities of rain and thundershowers are more on Saturday and Sunday.The thunderstorm struck the city around 4am. Light to moderate rainfall was recorded in different parts of the district. The Met observatory at Amausi airport recorded 21.2 mm rainfall till 8.30am. As a result, minimum temperature dropped to 19.2 degrees Celsius, eight degrees below normal. The day was humid but maximum temperature was 37.7 degrees Celsius, two degrees below normal.Met officials said that the sky would be partly cloudy on Friday with possibility or thundershowers in some areas. Maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to be around 39 and 19 degrees Celsius respectively. Temperatures are expected to drop on Saturday and Sunday due to thunderstorm and rains. The Met office also predicted rain and thunderstorms accompanied by squall at isolated places in other parts of the state. Hot and humid conditions were witnessed in other parts of UP as well on Thursday. However, Bundelkhand and some parts of east and west UP continued to reel under heat wave conditions with maximum temperatures between 42 and 44 degrees Celsius.Meanwhile, monsoon, which arrived in India on Wednesday, advanced further.
 Lucknow: An LLB Ist year student ended his life in his rented room in Chinhat on Thursday.  Neeraj Kumar Rai (25) was a native of Balia and was studying at City Law College. He lived in a house owned by Dinesh Singh of Tewariganj locality.  As per reports, around 4.30pm, Neeraj's close acquaintance Shailendra reached his house to ask about his well-being. He found the door to Neeraj's room locked from inside. He called Neeraj but did not get any response. Shailendra peeped inside only to see Neeraj hanging from the ceiling with a bedsheet tied around his neck. He then dialled the police control room.  Satyasen Yadav, CO Gomtinagar, said the door was locked from inside. He added that no suicide note was recovered from the room. "The victim had inscribed the word 'AMMO' on his right arm with a blade. Blood had oozed from the cut and clotted," he said.
Lucknow, June 10 (ANI): In Uttar Pradesh, the polling for the Legislative Council elections will be held today, where to win an election to each of the 13 MLC berths falling vacant, a candidate needs 29 votes. While the SP has fielded eight candidates, the BSP has nominated three persons, Congress one, and the BJP two persons, thereby necessitating polls. The results will be announced post polls, today itself. The political parties have ramped up efforts to keep their legislators in good humour and loyal to their parent political camps. Mulayam Singh Yadav, the patriarch of the ruling Samajwadi party hosted a dinner for its MLAs yesterday, which reportedly was not attended by at least ten of the members causing much of unrest within the party. On paper, the Samajwadi Party does not seem to be in a weak position in the Council polls, and is only short of three votes, but in reality, it faces the possibility of a house falling apart. At least a few sitting MLAs and ministers of the SP are stated to be unhappy with the Yadav first family. Meanwhile, the Election Commission of India has gone to the micro level to keep the identity of voter MLAs a secret in the legislative council and Rajya Sabha elections. According to the Election Commission, a pen can leave a mark clear enough to reveal the identity of an MLA. Therefore, EC rules make it mandatory for MLAs to use only the official pen provided by it in both the elections. (ANI)
Ludhiana: At this kitty, women worked out a quaint test of love. They texted their husbands, "Do you love my footwear?" The one who received an instant reply was declared the winner. The winner, Ripin Makhija, was overwhelmed when she got the admittedly unexpected reply. "Oh my god! I can't believe this. I did not even expect my husband to read the message, much less respond. What a great day it is."The party was hosted at a restaurant on Mall Road by Meetu Khosla, a resident of Basant Avenue. The theme of the party was "Uchi Addiya" or high heels. Shiwani Batra from Udham Singh Nagar said, "We organise these parties to spend time with our friends and take a break from mundane routine." Simi Makania, a resident of Model Town said, "I feel these parties are a must. For one, they help us keep abreast of latest trends."
Jaipur: The mandir samiti took out a grand procession from Badi Chaupar to Manak Chowk to instal the idols of Gauri Shankar Mahadev temple, which were dismantled for Jaipur Metro work. The district administration has allotted land to construct a new temple behind Manak Chowk area. Mandir samiti procession was taken out as per Hindu rituals. It was done under the supervision of police as district administration deployed heavy force to maintain peace. "On Wednesday, few residents had protested on the issue of temple relocation. Seeing that, deployment of police was made to handle the situation," said a district administration official. Also, the construction work of Badi Chaupar station under Jaipur Metro (B), which was stalled for past three months, was resumed as the Jaipur Metro Rail Corporation (JMRC) relocated Gauri Shankar Mahadev temple. A JMRC official claimed that the delay in shifting the temple was becoming an obstacle and affecting the progress of Metro work.A senior official source at JMRC said, "The project is delayed by three months. We would have opened the traffic between Badi Chaupar and Tripolia by now, if the temple had been shifted earlier."As per the JMRC officials, 80% of the diaphragm wall has been constructed near the station and shifting the temple was necessary to lay the roof. Moreover, the tunnel boring machine (TBM) has reached the Badi Chaupar station. The protesters also raised the demand to construct the temple structure at new place before demolishing the old one.
 Lucknow: Lucknow University has withheld the result of 144 students of BA third-year who had taken admission on zero fee and have still not paid the fee to the university.  Fee of these students is transferred by the social welfare department directly in the student's account for payment to the university. Students have received the money but have still not deposited the fee.  Controller of examination AK Sharma said, "Earlier, we used to inform the respective department about the non-payment of fees by students and declare the result. But this time, we have decided to act tough against the defaulters," he added.
Lucknow, June 10 (ANI): Amid speculations that he may be projected as the BJP's chief ministerial face in Uttar Pradesh, Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday skipped a poser on the same terming it as 'hypothetical'.  "This is a hypothetical question, I am already at one place," Singh told ANI when asked whether he was the BJP's candidate for the top post in Uttar Pradesh.  Stating there is no dearth of leaders in Uttar Pradesh, Singh said that his party would form the government with a 'clear majority'.  "The Bharatiya Janata Party will get a clear majority in Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. Taking note of the Centre's performance under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership, the people feel it is important that India's largest state must have a BJP government," he said.  "The BJP will win here with clear majority and form the government," he added.  Rajnath, who is one of the most prominent BJP leaders from Uttar Pradesh, is reportedly likely to play an important role in the party's campaign for the assembly elections to be held early next year.  According to sources, the BJP plans to project Rajnath as the party's main face in Uttar Pradesh so as to counter Samajwadi Party supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati.(ANI)
Ludhiana: Punjab state commission for protection of child rights has summoned principal of Harkrishan Public School, ATI Road, in the case of harassment against a student. According to information, a parent had filed a complaint to the commission against the school teacher for having beaten up his 10-year-old daughter for scoring less in the class exam. In his compliant to the commission, the victim's father Manpreet Singh had alleged that his daughter, who is a heart patient, was beaten up. The parents had later approached the child rights commission and a written complaint was also filed at Shimlapuri police station. Manpreet Singh said: "The school staff has been aware of my child's health condition and even then, she was not spared and was beaten up for having scored six out of eight marks in a class test. My daughter remained unwell for days after this incident."Chairman of Punjab state commission of protection of child rights Sukesh Kalia said, "I have summoned the school principal and SHO of Shimlapuri police station in June 21." The father also alleged that he was among those protesters who stood up against fee hike by the school authorities, and the institute had targeted his daughter deliberately. School principal Manjeet Kaur was not available for comments.
Ludhiana: While there are people who are opposing move of the censor board for cutting scenes and banning the release of movie Udta Punjab in Punjab, there are others who want the movie to be banned. One such organization carried out a protest against producer of the movie Anurag Kashyap and burnt his effigy on Thursday.Members of organization "Anti Drug and Corruption Welfare Society" gathered at Ghanta Ghar Chowk on Thursday evening. The protesters carried placards with slogans against the movie."Punjab is not the only state that has a problem of drugs. Other states too face such issues. The movie maker has inflated the problem and it is far from reality. Nobody would believe that every Punjabi family has addicts and this is what is being depicted with assertions that over 70% of people are addicts," said Sanjeev Chaudhary, who is president of the organization.Pankaj Chawla, another member of the group, said: "All Punjabis are not addicts and problem is being exaggerated due to political reasons," said Chawla. Jasmeet Singh Makkar, another member of the organization, said that they will be holding protests in coming days till the movie was completely banned everywhere. "This movie is an attempt to mislead Punjabis. These people will look down upon Punjabis and our image a hard working and honest people would be badly affected," said Makkar.
Ludhiana: An engineering student died after the two wheeler he was riding was hit by a truck near Lohara area here on Thursday evening. The deceased was identified as 22-year-old Lakhwinder Singh of Sheeron village who was a student of Guru Nanak Engineering college.ASI Janak Raj of Daba police station said the student was going on his bike from Focal Point to his college. He added that the motorcycle got stuck to the side of the truck going from Doraha to Ferozepur, as a result of which he fell down from his bike.Police officials said that the youngster was crushed under one of the tyres of the heavy vehicle and died on the spot. They added that the driver of the truck ran away from the spot. Cops from Daba police station reached the spot and started the investigation into the matter.Investigating officer of the case said that they are trying to arrest the truck driver.
PANAJI: Cyient a design-led manufacturing and aftermarket solutions provider, inaugurated a new global design center in Bengaluru, for SMEC, an Australian professional services company. The design centre will be utilized for high-level consultancy services on major infrastructure projects."The design center sets the foundation for a long-term collaboration with SMEC," managing director and chief executive officer Cyient Krishna Bodanapu said.The facility, built and operated by Cyient, is SMEC's first offshore design center, and will support SMEC's global design work primarily around civil and structural, including building information modeling (BIM), Cyient officials said in a statement.The center which will commence its operations from July 2016, is expected to scale up to 100 full-time engineers within a year.Andy Goodwin, chief executive officer at SMEC said, "SMEC is very pleased to be partnering with Cyient to support our global design offering. Cyient has a long-standing reputation for providing superior service to Tier-1 clients across a broad range of industries."
Ludhiana: Rainfall on Thursday morning brought respite from the acute heat wave that had gripped the area over the past few days. The meteorological department has forecast weather disturbances for the next few days which could further lead to a drop in temperature. The morning rain was recorded at 0.8mm and brought a substantial change in temperature. The maximum (day) temperature in the city was measured at 38.1 degrees, a degree less than normal and around two degrees more than that on Wednesday. The minimum (night) temperature, however, was recorded at 27.8 degrees, three degrees above normal and about two degrees more than that on Wednesday. Weathermen have forecast partly cloudy sky with a possibility of rain, thunder-shower or a dust storm.
Ludhiana: With the competition rising, students need high scores not only to get admission in good colleges, but also to get seats in hostels.Two prominent colleges in the city -- SCD Government College and Government College for Girls (GCG) -- have merit criteria for students while allotting hostel seats.Every year, these two colleges get more applications than the seats available in hostels and hence allot seats to students on the basis of their marks. Importantly, even after getting hostel seats, the students' struggle does not end. They sometimes have to adjust with five to six other students in a single room.GCG principal Mohinder Kaur Grewal said, "We have a total of 250 seats in our hostel. And to get a seat, our first criteria is distance and second is merit. Since, we get many applications for limited seats, so we have to take merit into account for the selection." Principal of SCD Government College Dharam Singh Sandhu said they have 50 rooms in boys' hostel with the capacity of three students in each room. The girls' hostel has a capacity of 106 students. Moreover, a new block of girls' hostel with 10 rooms is under construction and would be completed by the time the upcoming session starts.He said, "The criteria for getting hostel seats are distance and merit."However, private colleges have 'first-come-first-serve' criteria for hostel seats and in some colleges, sports students are given weightage."We have two hostels with a capacity to accommodate 250 students. Though sports students are given preference, but our basic criterion is first come first serve," said Manjeet Kaur Ghumman, principal of Guru Nanak Khalsa College for Women, Gujarkhan Campus.
SRINAGAR: For 55-year-old Godambari Devi, the decade-old gruelling struggle to go to the forests to fetch firewood every day ended on Thursday as she became the first recipient of a free LPG connection under the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana scheme.  Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan gave away 30 LPG connections to selected families under the scheme at a function here. The central government aims to extend the facility of easy availability of clean cooking gas to women from BPL households through this scheme.  The facility will soon be extended to similar households in a phased manner in all 13 districts of Uttarakhand. Every family is being given a kit from Bharat Petroleum which contains a cylinder, a pipe, an oven and a regulator.  "My whole life I cooked in a chulha and used jungle wood. It was my dream to have an LPG gas connection which has been fulfilled today," said Devi. For village women in the hills, the facility comes as a boon as most of them have to travel long distances to collect firewood from forests with wild animals like bears and leopards a constant threat to their lives.  "Every day we expose ourselves to threats like bear and leopard attacks while fetching firewood. There have been instances when an animal came too close, but we managed to scare it away," said Anita Devi, a resident of Patal Bagawari block of Thalisain in Pauri Garwal district.  The petroleum ministry has set a target of distributing 5 crore connections under the scheme. "For Uttarakhand we are coming up with a new distribution system that will facilitate supply of cylinders in the hilly areas. Small bottling plants will be set up under this initiative and cylinders will be sold with help of shopkeepers in villages which cannot be covered under the normal distribution system," said Pradhan.  The petroleum ministry has recorded that 1.13 crore LPG connection users have opted out of subsidized connections and the money saved from these connections has been transferred to the BPL families under the Ujjwala Yojna scheme.
Ludhiana: A day after the iron barrier installed to stop heavy vehicles at Jagraon bridge fell down on a car after being hit by a load carrier, mayor Harcharan Singh Gohalwaria visited the spot on Thursday and said that the municipal corporation (MC) would establish two height barriers on the bridge for the safety of residents.Earlier, the railways had declared the portion of Jagraon bridge built over the railway tracks as unsafe and installed a height barrier at the starting point to restrict the entry of heavy vehicles on the bridge. But on Wednesday the height barrier fell down on a car. However, no casualty was reported.Members of few organisations also reached the spot on Wednesday and also sent tweets to the Union railway minister asking him to look into the matter.On Thursday, the mayor along with some members of different NGOs including Rahul Verma, councilor Tanvir Dhaliwal and Gurpal Grewal, who had earlier started a campaign 'Save Jagraon Bridge' inspected the bridge.The mayor said that two height barriers will be installed to restrict the entry of heavy vehicles over the bridge. One for the traffic coming from the side of railway station and other coming from Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib side. The barriers will be installed by Saturday and proper reflectors will be installed at the barriers which will make them visible during night hours, he added.Further, it was found that different parts of bridge come under different zones of MC. The mayor said that the responsibility of installing barriers has been given to Zone C to avoid any confusion.The mayor said as far as replacement of the bridge is concerned, that is to be done by the railways departments and MC has nothing to do with it.The mayor has asked officials to get the repair work of footpaths over the bridge done. And with rats making the bridge hollow, the mayor has asked officials to get the plastering work on walls of the bridge completed as soon as possible.
Ludhiana: A three day "fashion-n-art" exhibition started at Atmosphere Art Gallery on Ferozepur Road on Thursday. There were on display several paintings, dresses, art & craft materials made by students in a span of one year. Organizing institute' photography department put on display several images depicting numerous photography techniques ranging from levitation, double exposure to steal wool photography.Dresses designed by students were made up of lycra, leather and chiffon. Earphone covers, wall hangings and tiaras, printed T-shirts grabbed the attention of visitors. Nishant Sareen, one of the participants, said, "I have recently learnt the latest photography techniques and I have displayed my talent. Steel wool photography, polygon art have encouraged me a lot."Nousheel Verma, a budding fashion designer, said, "My paintings are my passion. I have also designed various dresses and gowns which are being displayed. These gowns can be worn during evening parties." Exhibition portrayed logo designs created by students, digital art, matte painting which includes combining all photos. Students also designed several catalogues which are used in the fashion industry. The exhibition aimed to make the residents aware about the changing pattern of trends in fashion industry and photography techniques.
Madurai: Union minister of state for shipping Pon Radhakrishnan has said he is ready to give up his minister's post with the approval of the Prime Minister and turn a crusader to make the Colachel harbour a reality. Speaking to mediapersons in Nagercoil on Thursday, Pon Radhakrishnan said the Colachel habour was a 60-year-old dream of the people of Kanyakumari. The BJP government at the Centre had allocated 23,000 crores, but the opposition parties, especially the DMK and the Congress, were now trying to instigate the local people to oppose this project. He said DMK and Congress, which won the recent assembly election in constituencies in Kanyakumari, should work for the development of the district and not against it. "If these two parties attempt to come in the way of the Colachel habour project, I will even resign my minister's post and fight for it. I know the cadres of the BJP will support me in this endeavour,'' he said.However, fishermen and locals in the Colachel belt are determined that the harbour project should not materialise. As many as 65,000 fishermen in the region fear that they would lose their livelihood.Legal advisor of the People's Movement Against International Container Transshipment Terminal, Stanly Casmic Sundar said it was high time the minister resigned, taking responsibility for the BJP's dismal performance in the election. "He projected the Colachel harbour as his prime agenda while campaigning in six constituencies. The party's poor performance reflects the people's response to this project,'' he said.
Jaipur: Nearly 70 years after Independence, there are still communities like the nomadic tribes of the state that have no citizenship rights - they have no ration cards, no voter identification card, no Aadhar. They cannot make any demands from the government, and their children seldom attend school. Ummed Singh Rebari, a leader of the nomadic Rebari tribe, spoke at the Jawab Do dharna on Thursday of the traditional lifestyle of his people, who would tend to livestock and move vast distances with their animals. "These animals are not tethered. Those who tend to camels know that the animals should be allowed to graze freely. The nomads don't tie up their animals, they let them roam free. They depend on the free availability of water and fodder. At a time when even settled communities find water and fodder hard to come by, you can imagine the plight of nomads. Where would they go with their animals? We speak today of bio-diversity. It was the lifestyle of these groups that contributed to it. Their animals would sometimes be preyed upon by wild animals. And the livestock they tended would also aid in spreading seeds and cause plants to take root."Paras Banjara, one of only two graduates from his tribe in the state, told TOI, "The colonial government classified some tribes as 'criminal'. These were tribes the British found hard to control. They moved about and could easily spread disaffection against the government. This classification as criminal was undone by Prime Mininster Nehru's government in 1950, but even today the police forces look on certain communities as habitually criminal. That stigma transmitted through the bureaucracy remains." The ninth day of the Jawab Do dharna at Shaheed Smarak in Jaipur saw a discussion of the plight of the most marginalized groups in India. According to Census 2011, 25% of India's population comprises Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes. P L Memroth, a leader of Dalit groups, spoke of how Dalit people could not take clean water or electricity supply for granted - their dwellings were often a little removed from the village. Hardly any teaching at all happens in state government schools, and these are where poor Dalit children expect to find an education. Norti Bai, formerly sarpanch of Harmara in Ajmer district, spoke of how the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act had for some years served well to alleviate rural poverty.
 Lucknow: Police arrested a man on Thursday in connection with Monday's murder of a general merchant. As it turned out, the motive behind the murder was property worth Rs 10 crore.  Ankur, the nephew of the deceased, Ashok Maurya, has been arrested for planning the murder and police are still hunting for four others.  Three unidentified miscreants had shot dead the general store owner, who ran it from his house in Banthra, around 9.35am on Monday.  "On a tip-off from an insider, we got to know that Ankur was trying to run away and we nabbed him near Kanpur highway," said a policeman.  Ankur owned up to the crime. He said his uncle had taken up all the ancestral land, worth Rs10 cr, and was not ready to share it with his father, Shiv Maurya. "I decided to murder him," confessed Ankur.  ASP (East) Shivram Yadav said Ankur took assistance of his brother-in-law Shrawan in planning the murder. Shrawan, who lives in Kanpur, in turn contacted shooter Javed Alam, also a native of Kanpur, who has been named in many incidents of kidnapping and murder. "We are trying to find the others involved," Yadav said.
Madurai: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Wednesday directed the Tirunelveli collector to inspect a stream (water body) following allegations of encroachments and file a report before it in eight weeks. The division bench of Justice Nooty Ramamohana Rao and Justice S S Sundar gave this direction on a public interest litigation filed by one S Arumaidas of Jacobpuram in Tirunelveli district alleging encroachments on the stream and seeking to remove the same.He said in his petition that the 50km stream starting from the Western Ghats, passes through Jacobpuram village and ends in the Bay of Bengal. However, it is fully encroached. The said stream fills up seven ponds in the village, which is very helpful for the residents. To remove the encroachments, representations were sent to the district administration, but no action was taken by officials, he said. "Meanwhile, we heard that a service centre is being constructed under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. Opposing it, we demanded removal of encroachments on the stream by sending a representation on March 9 this year. The administration, which stopped the work then, has commenced it again. And, no action has been taken to remove the encroachments," said the petitioner. The Supreme Court and the Madras high court have passed many orders against encroachments on the water bodies. Despite the same, the district authorities remain silent spectators in the issue. The encroachment would flood Jacobpuram and Chidamparapuram villages, if they are not removed, which would ultimately endanger the local people, the petitioner said. Accusing the officials of aiding encroachers, he said, "As per the revenue records a particular survey number speaks about the stream. But, some people try to make constructions in the said stream with the help of tainted government officials."Thus, the petitioner prayed to stop construction on the stream; to appoint an advocate commissioner to assess the encroachments and to remove the encroachments.
Mangaluru: Dissent against former Union minister B Janardhan Poojary has sparked a row in within Congress in Dakshina Kannada. While a section of Congress leaders are up in arms against veteran party leader over his outspoken statements against the leadership, especially CM Siddaramaiah, another section is stoutly backing him. Puttur Block Congress Committee former president Kavu Hemanath Shetty and few leaders on Tuesday told reporters they are all set to write to KPCC and AICC against Poojary for making remarks on party leaders. Hemanath Shetty, who sought disciplinary action against Poojary, also has warned that party workers will stage a black flag protest at programmes that Poojary attends. Senior Congress leader and former MLA K Vijayakumar Shetty told reporters on Thursday that Hemanath Shetty has no moral right to speak about Poojary. "It is a fact known to the nation that Poojary is a honest and selfless political leader. Poojary has no hesitation to speak against any political party leaders when they are at fault. Poojary has shown courage to speak even against his own party as he is a honest leader," Vijayakumar Shetty said.  Another senior Congress leader Kallige Tharanath Shetty too condemned the accusations made by Hemanath Shetty. "Veteran politicians like Poojary and Kagodu Thimmappa are guiding the party leadership by pointing out mistakes. Poojary has the strength and courage to speak when party leaders err. Hemanath Shetty has been speaking against Poojary on the instruction of some other powerful leaders. Let those instigating Hemanath Shetty come for an open debate," he said.  Puttur Block Congress president Fazal Rahman said, "Hemanath Shetty, who is only a primary member of the party at present, has no moral right to talk about Poojary." It may be added here that Hemanath Shetty had invited the wrath of party leaders after he launched Bharatiya Hindu Parishat in Puttur to counter the VHP.
Madurai: After a severe drubbing of the party in the assembly election, DMDK leader Vijayakant on Thursday sought to pep up the morale of partymen by stating that he was fearless and would rise like a phoenix how many ever times he fell and so would DMDK. After his party's drubbing in the election, he made his first public appearance at a wedding ceremony in Karaikudi in Sivaganga district. The actor, who was strongly wooed by DMK, BJP and PWF, joined hands with the four-party People's Welfare Front, comprising Vaiko (MDMK), Thol Thirumavalavan (VCK), and Left Parties, after they chose him as chief ministerial candidate. The Captain Vijayakant front that included TMC besides the DMDK and PWF did not win a single seat.Vijayakant himself lost in Ulundurpet constituency in Villupuram district, perceived as a stronghold of DMDK. On Thursday, the actor, alongwith his wife, and senior DMDK leader, Premalatha rolled out plans for the future at a family wedding of a partyman. "You may be wondering why my party did not contest in Karaikudi. I will definitely contest this seat. I am fearless and will rise like the phoenix how many ever times I fall," he said to raptuorus applause in the packed hall. "The phoenix is known to rise from the ashes, so will you and I,'' he said. The party candidates forfeited their deposits in all constituencies in the assembly election.While Vijayakant's decision to go with PWF did not go down well within the party, and a section floated Makkal DMDK, the continuation of the alliance for the local body polls may further erode its base, party leaders said. DMDK's vote share fell to 2.4% in 2016 polls, from 7.9 in 2011. Premalatha said the DMDK chief would continue his fight against corruption. "Even in films, the hero gets bashed up for some time before he retaliates," she reasoned. Meanwhile, BJP leader Tamilisai Soundarajan said Vijayakanth failed to get the support of cadres, as well as people, by joining hands with PWF.
Mangaluru: With the threat of closure looming large on government schools in Karnataka, a 100-year-old Kannada-medium school in Mangaluru invited minister for primary and secondary education Kimmane Ratnakar as a guest for its closure ceremony.The objective is to sound the alarm bell and push the government into some positive action. The management of Subrahmanya Higher Primary School, Thokooru in Mulky, has been forced to close the school as the only teacher on its rolls retired on May 31.It's ironical that the closure ceremony is being organized by Harikrishna Punaroor, former president of the Kannada Sahitya Parishat. The school with 50 students had only one teacher. Officials of the department of public instruction did not act on requests by the Vasudeva Rao Memorial Trust, which has been running the school for over 100 years, to appoint a teacher, said Harikrishna, who is also the school coordinator.No teachers appointed: "We have been running the school with great difficulty. We made several requests for appointment of teachers well in time. However, officials, instead of appointing teachers, insist we issue transfer certificates to children. Currently, we're running the school with five temporary teachers. We're forced to close the school as it's not possible to continue without permanent teachers," Harikrishna told TOI."We have already sent a letter of invitation to the minister for the closure ceremony. It's part of our fight against the government's apathy to Kannadamedium schools. All our efforts to get teachers through letters to the government, zilla panchayat and district administration have gone in vain," he said. He called upon people to oppose the government's policy against Kannada schools.
MANGALURU: The Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) Dakshina Kannada Blood Bank located in Lady Goschen Hospital premises in the city will be launching a 'Blood Bank Helpline' on the occasion of World Blood Donors Day on June 14.        The helpline (0824-2424788) will be manned 24x7 and will provide information to the public on availability of blood in Red Cross Blood Bank and other Blood Banks in Dakshina Kannada District. The Helpline will also direct the public to the nearest Blood Bank where the particular Blood Group is available. In case the particular Blood group is not available, Red Cross staff will make every effort to locate that blood group by contacting voluntary donors although no guarantee will be given that the particular blood group will be found. The staff will also provide information on blood safety and the benefits of blood donation, said Sushil Jathanna, chairman, IRCS Blood Bank Committee.        The Red Cross Blood Bank has modern equipment and well trained staff to handle all enquiries related to blood donation and blood transfusion from the public, he said adding that the telephone number will become operational from June 14.        The Red Cross Blood Bank will also be honouring five individuals, who have donated highest units of blood, for their selfless act in saving other people's lives. In addition, The Red Cross Blood Bank will also be felicitating all those people who have helped in organising blood camps. Ronald Fernandes, former Chairman of the IRCS Blood Bank Committee will also be felicitated on the occasion. The function will be held at 4 pm at the Conference Hall of Regional Advanced Pediatric Care Centre (RAPCC), Wenlock Hospital. P I Sreevidya, CEO, Dakshina Kannada Zilia Panchayat will be the guest, he said.        The Red Cross Blood Bank will also be organising a blood donation camp between 9am and 12.30pm at its premises, said Shantharam Shetty, chairman, IRCS.
Mangaluru: The district administration will hold 'NHAI Land Acquisition Parihar Adalat' in order to disburse compensation to land owners who have not received or claimed compensation from the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) at mini Vidhana Soudha here on Saturday. Deputy commissioner AB Ibrahim said the road widening from Talapady to Nanthoor and Surathkal to Mulki involves 17 villages and 57 hectares of land. "A sum of Rs 53 crore is lying idle with the district administration as there is arbitration involved. We intend to finish the process through this adalat,'' he said.He said 376 land owners appealed for arbitration to increase the compensation and an order has been passed for the increase in compensation to 296 landowners.
MANGALURU: MS Krishna Bhat, former chairman of Karnataka Bank passed away on Friday. He was 78.Bhat, joined Karnataka Bank in 1970. He was elevated to the position of General Manager in 1989 and later became the chief general manager in 1994. He took over the reins of the Bank as Chairman on 12.07.1995 initially for a two year period which was extended for another three years up to July, 2000.Karnataka Bank witnessed new highs under his leadership and the Bank's capital expansion programme in October 1995, by way of public issue of Bank's shares at a premium, received overwhelming response from investors even in the midst of adverse market conditions. He was known for his foresight, and quick decision-taking capacity. During his tenure as the Bank's chairman, the paid-capital and owned funds of the Bank increased multi fold. The total business of the Bank also more than tripled, registering a growth rate much higher than the industry growth rate. The Bank also secured the highest P1+ rating for its Certificate of Deposits from CRISIL. The Bank also ventured into leasing and Hire purchase business. Computerization of banking operations were initiated in the Bank during his tenure as the Bank's Chairman.
 Meerut: In a bid to nullify the allegations of inaction regarding development of cantonment area levelled by vice-president of the Meerut Cantt Board (MCB) Been Wadhawa on May 27, chief executive officer (CEO) of Meerut Cantonment Board (MCB) Rajeev Shirvastava on Thursday said during his 10-month tenure since he took over, his focus has been to pull the board out of the red. "Today we have no liability on us."  Addressing the media, Shirvastava said. "My foremost priority after joining here was to raise funds and increase the income so that the derailed development work could be resumed. Today, we have Rs 12.5 crore in our account. We have cleared the outstanding bills of Rs 3.5 crore of power department as well as all the pension and gratuity related matters of retired employees. Today, we have no liability on us. Roads have been reconstructed with Rs 2 crore while the work to rebuild roads is on. We made the Gandhi Bagh worth visiting and within three months, collected Rs 15 lakh as revenue by visitors. Now, our complete thrust is to make the Cantt first a 'Smart Cantt' in the country in the line of the smart city."  Shrivastava also outlined future plans regarding laying of sewage lines across the Cantt area and providing piped water to every household. "Today, we are providing water though pipeline to 75% of total households in the Cantt area and want it to be 100% in the next three years. Besides, sewage lines will be laid in all the eight wards. We are going to adopt energy saving methods by replacing all streetlights by LED lights. Similarly, we will erect solar panels at MCB office, hospitals and all MCB-run schools in a bid to save power."  The CEO's statement is significant as the MCB's general board meeting that was scheduled on May 27 was adjourned. All the eight elected board members, including Wadhawa, boycotted it saying MCB authority is not concerned about Cantt's development. The president of Cantt board Maj Gen KM Singh has called another meeting on Friday.  According to sources, none of the elected members participated in the board meeting on May 27 as they were to be formally informed that Supreme Court decision on bungalow number 210 B had gone against the 65 families living there. The elected members wanted to distance themselves from the MCB's line of action so they shipped the meeting, citing "no development" to justify their boycott.
 Kanpur: The eleven-year-old son of a bank manager was kidnapped from Naubasta area of the city on Wednesday evening.  The kidnappers demanded a ransom of Rs 10 lakh from the parents of the boy. The family informed the police. Sources said the police had zeroed in on the location from where the kidnappers had made the ransom call.  Ashutosh, a resident of Y-1 block in Kidwainagar, studying in class VI, had gone to attend coaching classes on Wednesday evening at 4.30 pm but did not return home.  When the family members inquired about the boy from the teacher, they were told that Ashutosh had already left. Ashutosh's father Dharampal is the manager of bank. The parents lodged a missing complaint with the Naubasta police.  Sources said soon after the parents returned home from police station, the kidnappers called the boy's father on his mobile phone and demanded ransom money. The caller also warned him not to seek police help else his son would be killed.  The boy's father told police about the ransom call. The cops converted the missing case into kidnapping on the basis of mobile phone number and launched an investigation. The police suspect that some known person could have kidnapped the boy.  Superintendent of police (south) Sanjay Yadav said that police team assisted by crime branch sleuths has been conducting investigation into the case.  The police traced the phone to a person, who hails from Shivli area. The police have conducted raids after putting the phone on surveillance and detained few persons in this connection on Thursday.
Meerut: More than a week after BJP MP and former Union minister Hukum Singh claimed that there was mass exodus of Hindu families from Kairana town in Shamli district over the past two years, the leader on Wednesday produced a list of 346 families that had fled leaving their properties behind after they were allegedly targeted and persecuted by another community. The MP said the list mentions only the families of Kairana, and if those who migrated from other parts of the district are included, the number would be more than a thousand. At a press conference, the MP also claimed that there have been at least 10 communal killings in the town, that has become a "new Kashmir", in the past three years.
 Meerut: An exclusive parcel booking counter for eBay India sellers was inaugurated at Meerut head post office in Meerut Cantt area on Thursday morning. The city thus became the first in UP to have such a facility for the e-tailing giant. The exclusive counter aims to simplify product dispatch service of eBay's seller community.  Just two hours after the opening in the city, the state capital, Lucknow, got a similar counter making it the second such counter in the state.  Arvind Kumar, senior post master, Meerut Cantt post office, said, "There are many residents in Meerut who use e-commerce for selling their products to people based in different parts of the country and even abroad. We already have a huge rush at our existing parcel counters in the office. Also, dealing with e-commerce customers is a little different. Keeping this in mind, the eBay counter is a blessing in disguise for e-commerce customers. The counter will be exclusive for them to send their products through speed post, registered post or any other service they wish to opt for."  The eBay India counter aims to simplify product dispatch service of the sellers and at the same time strengthen their long-term association with India Post. An official from eBay, who did not wish to be named, said, "By means of this exclusive counter, our customers can send their parcels to the concerned people via net marketing. Our sellers are at the core of the business and we have continuously brought in varied innovations to ease operations of our partners. We have already opened such counters in 12 cities."  Around 500 customers of eBay use India post or private courier companies to dispatch their items via India Post. Apart from the eBay counter, India Post has a total of three parcel counters.  Talking to TOI, Gauhar Rais, a customer of eBay, said, "We had to stand in long queues to complete the courier formalities but now that eBay has a separate counter, it will save our time. Moreover, there were times when post officials did not know how to deal with e-commerce products but with a different counter, they can contact eBay directly for any query."
Mangaluru: How to save a Kannada medium school from being closed permanently? Enroll your English medium school going children to these schools and provide them education there. While most do not opt for this unlikely option, few local club members in Bantwal taluk have shifted their kids studying in the English medium schools to Kannada medium schools. The Government Higher Primary School, Dadddalkad which had just 30 students last year, currently has 218 children from LKG to class 8. "Last August, school headmaster came to us with anxiety that the school is on the verge of closure due to dwindling numbers. Members of Sri Durga Friends Club, Karenki swung into action and shifted their children to the school taking the number to 56." recalls Prakash Anchan, president of the club. "Members believed that change begins at home so they got their children admitted to the Kannada medium school to save it," Prakash, who heads the club, added.Later, members sought permission from the department of public instruction to convert medium of instruction to English till class 6. The club has entered into a five year agreement with the government to run the school, said Prakash, who is educated upto class 7 and runs a textile business in Bantwal. Earlier, the school had only three government appointed teachers. After taking over, club members have recruited seven teachers and the club pays their salaries. "However, we are not taking a penny from students even for the school uniforms and shoes. Club members have generously provided financial help and their only aim is to save a 48-year-old school," he maintains. The school also attracted children from nearby villages and some of them come from a distance of 12 kilometres. The school provides transport for them.The school management has added yoga, karate and other extra-curricular activities to the schedule. The club members who realised that current building is dilapidated and has no space to accommodate more students, have taken up a Rs 1crore project by crowd funding to build 13 rooms and other facilities. "The building work is expected to complete by next year,.
Mangaluru: The Department of Mines and Geology has collected Rs2.19 crore in fines for illegal sand transportation and mining in the district in the year 2015-16 as well as in the first two months of this fiscal year. Majority of the fine amount is from illegal transport of sand to neighbouring states, which is Rs1.45 crore. Deputy commissioner AB Ibrahim said this pertains to 1,443 cases in 2015-16 and the amount collected is Rs1.93 crore. In 45 cases complaints have been filed. In the first two months of the year, the department has collected Rs26.10 lakh in 171 cases and in eight cases, complaints have been filed. Giving details, Ibrahim said in 2015-16, there were 309 illegal mining cases and the fine imposed was Rs47.42 lakh. The illegal transport of sand cases were 1,134 and the fine collected, Rs1.45 crore. In the first two months of the year, 22 illegal mining cases were detected and the fine imposed was Rs4.18 lakh and illegal sand transport cases were 149. The fine collected was Rs21.92 lakh. He said that seven special teams and five static surveillance teams were set up to stop illegal mining and transport in the district. The department had installed CCTV at eight locations in the district and was being monitored at the office of superintendent of police. There were 77 cases detected from SP's office and the office has written to the RTO to temporarily cancel the licences of these vehicles.  LOCAL SAND TRANSPORT ALLOWED FOR A WEEK: Deputy commissioner AB Ibrahim said that sand transport will be allowed for a week staring from June 16 to 21 during the ban period. The administration had banned sand mining in Dakshina Kannada district for 60 days from June 15 to August 15 in view of the fish breeding monsoon season. Ibrahim said the collected sand can be transported in order to facilitate building activities during the ban period, but sand transport outside the district can not.
Manipal: The certificate course-2016 in Bioethics which began on March 31 concluded on June 4. The course had 49 participants from various disciplines of health sciences. The contact programme had series of lectures and discussions on various topics pertaining to clinical ethics and research ethics. Dr Ramnarayan, vice-president, faculty development and alumni relations, Manipal University who presided over valedictory session awarded certificates to the participants. The course director Dr Nandini Kumar, former deputy director general senior grade (ICMR) and currently head of Dr T M A Pai Endowment Chair on Bioethics, Manipal University and adjunct professor (Bioethics), Kasturba Medical College, Manipal gave an overview of the course.  The course concluded with a final exam, presentations and assignments with weightage for award of the certificate. Dr Judith A Noronha, associate dean, Manipal College of Nursing, Manipal coordinated the course. The next course is scheduled to commence in September 2016.
Meerut: Mohammed Matin, a member of the Saroorpur block development council, was gunned down on Thursday morning. The man who allegedly shot him has been arrested in the afternoon.  According to police, Matin had entered into an altercation with one Kallua on Wednesday evening near a mosque. The police said Kallua, who only goes by his first name, had threatened to kill him. On Thursday morning, while Matin was in his house, Kallua rode up on a motorcycle and shot him.  "Matin had gone to a mosque at Mainaputhi village to offer Ramzan prayers on Wednesday evening. There, he got into an altercation with Kallua, who had also come to offer prayers at the mosque, over where their mats should be placed. The fight continued even after they left the mosque. Kallua threatened Matin and said that he would kill him in the presence of a large crowd, " said a police officer.  He added, "On Thursday morning, Matin was sitting outside his house when Kallua allegedly gunned him down. He then then fled on his motorcycle. Upon receiving information, police reached the spot and immediately sent the body for postmortem. We also registered a case under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. We then launched a search operation for Kallua and managed to apprehend him by the afternoon."
 Meerut: Taking up the cause of Vikas Kumar, a 24-year-old debt-ridden farmer who committed suicide on May 31, BJP workers have demanded Rs 25 lakh be given to his family and a government job for one family member. They also wanted that bank officials and society staff should stop harassing debt-ridden farmers, as sugar millers were not paying them their dues on time.  On Thursday, BJP workers went to the DM's office to meet him and discuss the matter. However, as the DM was not present, state convener of BJP traders' wing Vineet Sharda stuck a copy of the memorandum on the official's chair after waiting for him for over an hour.  Vikas Kumar of Bhagwanpur Bangad village committed suicide as he could not repay his debt to both SBI and a cooperative society. "The village falls under the constituency of Shahid Manjoor, labour minister in the SP-led state government, but he has no time to offer condolence to the bereaved family. There are 11 SP leaders who enjoy minister status but none of them has found time to visit the family. No government official has called on the family.  "Today, I arrived at the DM's office after taking prior appointment for 10:30 am. When he didn't arrive till 11:30 noon, I tried to contact him through his mobile phone but was asked to wait for some more time as he was busy. Such an attitude by senior officials show how unconcerned they are about poor farmers' woes," said Sharda.  DM Pankaj Yadav said due to urgent work he was held up elsewhere and could not meet the BJP members.
Mangaluru: The inflow of imported areca nut into domestic market has greatly reduced and farmers have appreciated efforts of Nirmala Sitharaman, Union minister of state for commerce, for her efforts.  On behalf of all arecanut farmers, CAMPCO Ltd, the Karnataka State Arecanut Cooperative Societies Federation Ltd, Shivamogga and MAMCOS, Shivamogga submitted a memorandum to Nirmala in this regard on Thursday. Every time a crisis arose in the domestic areca nut market, CAMPCO along with like-minded co-operative societies sought the help of the union government. Minimum tariff price has been increased and borders tightened, thereby illegal import of areca nut into the country has been curtailed to a large extent, due to which the areca nut farmers have been able to get a stable and economic market for their produce.The minister has assured that she would take up the matter with SAARC countries and take whatever action necessary to completely curb import of areca nut.
Gurgaon: The controversy surrounding industrialists dragging their feet over paying extra development charges (EDC) for their plots in Udyog Vihar, to the Haryana State Industrial & Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC), has taken a new turn, with the former claiming the latter is unnecessarily harassing them, even though the matter is pending in high court.Several industrialists claimed they are repeatedly getting notices from HSIIDC, asking them to pay EDC charges, even though a final decision by the court is still awaited. "The corporation has been issuing showcause notices to all allottees, asking them to pay EDC at Rs 682/sq m, though the matter is yet to be decided by the court," said Praveen Yadav, president of Gurgaon Udyog Association.The combined amount for all allottees in the industrial estate runs into crores. Accepting they have issued such showcause notices to all industrial allottees, HSIIDC officials said they were following orders from the commissioner of industries. "We know the matter is sub-judice, but there is no court stay order preventing us from collecting the payment, which is pending for a long time. The order was issued as per a verbal notice by the commissioner of industries, and orders from our head office," said a senior HSIIDC official. Payment of EDCs has been a bone of contention between the corporation and industrialists for a long time.The matter eventually reached the courts. In 2011, the corporation withdrew EDC charges for allottees in Udyog Vihar, following advice by the court to the then Haryana finance secretary. However, months later, the corporation brought back the EDC, now at a higher rate (from Rs 345/sq m to Rs 682/sq m). The industrialists again knocked the high court's door, and the matter has been sub-judice ever since.Industrialist are now planning to stage protests on June 14 at the HSIIDC complex in Gurgaon, when they announced they will hold a peaceful march and submit a memorandum to the HSIIDC managing director. Officials of the corporation said they are aware of the brewing unrest, and that they have informed their head office about it.
KOCHI: The Kerala High Court on Friday stayed National Green Tribunal's order banning diesel vehicles older than 10 years from plying on roads in the state. The ban was to come into force in June 23rd.        Justice PB Suresh Kumar had earlier stayed part of NGT's order that banned registration of new diesel vehicles above 2,000CC. With today's order, the High Court has now completely stayed the NGT's order. Further, the court held that it has powers to entertain an appeal over the NGT's order and rejected the contention that only the Supreme Court can consider the appeal.        The court had decided to first examine whether it has the power to intervene with the ban imposed by National Green Tribunal's Kochi circuit bench on registration of new diesel vehicles over 2,000CC.        Justice Kumar, who issued a stay on NGT's directive on May 27th considering a petition filed by a Toyota dealer, had later said that the stay was issued without noticing that the Madras high court, whose order was produced by the petitioner's counsel to augment his plea, had stopped entertaining appeals over NGT's decision. In these circumstances, justice Kumar proceeded to consider the issue whether it has powers to intervene with NGT's ban.        Parties heard by the court included Kochi-based Toyota dealer Nippon Motor Corporation Pvt Ltd, Indian auto makers' apex body Society of Indian Automobile Manufactures (SIAM), KSRTC, an association of private bus owners, and LEAF.        The court decided to consider in detail the issue of jurisdiction after the Lawyers' Environmental Awareness Forum (LEAF), which was the petitioner before NGT, contended that the high court cannot entertain an appeal over the ban. LEAF's standing counsel S Subhash Chand had argued that NGT's order can only be challenged before the Supreme Court or before a division bench of the high court as per a judgment of the apex court.        Senior counsel Jaju Babu, who represented the Toyota dealer, had argued that the NGT's order of May 23rd was passed without hearing the parties who would be affected. The high court can consider an appeal over NGT's order as NGT Act of 2010 doesn't override or curtail high court's powers as per the latest two-member bench's decision of the apex court, the counsel had submitted.        The lawyer representing SIAM had submitted that no appeal is possible against the NGT's order before the Supreme Court unless there is a substantial question of law involved as per the NGT Act. So the provision for filing an appeal before the Supreme Court cannot be termed as an alternative remedy but is a discretionary remedy, the counsel had said.        KSRTC's counsel PC Chacko had argued that in addition to violation of principles of natural justice, the NGT's order will affect the corporation and thousands of people as those living in the outskirts are relying on KSRTC's services to the city to pursue their livelihoods.        On the other hand, private bus owners' association had contended that NGT's order goes against a provision in Motor Vehicles Act that allows private bus operators a breathing time of two years when a substantive change is brought about by an authority. When it was decided to phase out registered before 1990, the SC had upheld the provision for granting a breathing time of two years, the counsel had said.        Answering the court's query regarding specific prayer or pleading for banning registration of new diesel vehicles over 2,000CC, LEAF's counsel had said there were pleadings in the petition before NGT and it is absolutely incorrect to say that the ban was issued without there being such a demand in the petition.
Nagpur : An unidentified driver ran over a man sleeping on the roadside in front of Empress Mallon Thursday. Ganeshpeth police have registered an offence of hit-and-run against unknown miscreants. Police said the driver ran over the man's head with his vehicle and fled the spot. The victim succumbed to death on the spot. Locals alerted police, who rushed to the spot. Cops are having trouble establishing the dead man's identity. Further investigations are underway. In yet another hit-and-run case, 65-year-old   Sanjay Naidu, a resident of   Bhimsena Nagar at Jaripatka, lost his life in a mishap in front of   Nirmala Apartment on   Nara Road at   Jaripatka on Wednesday. Rohit (25), son of the deceased, lodged a complaint at Jaripatka police station against unknown accused. Police said Sanjay was returning home from the market on his motorcycle when he was hit by a four-wheeler. Locals informed the family members, who rushed him to a nearby hospital, where he had declared dead. Police have got the number of the killer vehicle and are probing further
 Nagpur: Jalalkheda police on Thursday detained NCP Yuva Leader Salil Deshmukh along with 75 supporters, including a few farmers, who burned tyres and disturbed traffic at Bharsingi taluka's bus stop to demand waiver of farm loans.  Deshmukh said farmers are disappointed with the government as it has not given financial aid to buy seeds and fertilizers. "The government claims funds have been deposited in the accounts of drought-hit farmers, but in reality they are yet to get a single penny," he said.  He added that farmers who failed to return loans to bank were committing suicides under stress. "The BJP-led ruling party is only giving assurances. Farmers have not received compensation for damaged crops," he added.
Nagpur: The three day Marathi one-act play festival organized by Saptak, a city-based cultural organization will begin on Friday at Scientific Society hall at 6.30pm. The festival has been revived by   Saptak after a gap of five years. Five local theatre groups will be taking part in the event. Explaining the objective of the festival, Vilas Manekar, founder member of Saptak, told TOI this would provide a stage to local theatre groups and help them keep up with some creative activity. The plays are all new and have been especially mounted for this festival. "Since this is an effort to revive an event that was last held five years back, we have contacted the groups that were in touch with us for various other activities," Manekar said elaborating on the absence of many local groups especially those who perform 'Dalit Theatre' from the festival. "The event requires sponsors that we were finding hard to get so we have kept the scale down and will try to increase the ambit of the festival next year," he said. Only 70% of the cost of holding the festival is covered by sponsorship, Saptak bears the rest. Two plays will be staged on June 10 and 11 and one on June 12 when the festival ends. "Four entries to be staged on first two days are of one hour duration each and the fifth one on Sunday is of 1½ hours," Manekar said. "Our play 'Shake The Sphere Carrier' picks the tragic emotions like death and separation of the characters, on which the Bard's plays end. In our play we have picked up these elements but have finished it with a different emotion," says director Rupesh Pawar. Presenting the play, 'Palaki ... Ek Pravas Varnan,' based on renowned Marathi writer D B Mokashi's narration of the Pandharpur dindi, director Girish Pande says he has tried to merge the analysis of the writer and the truth that he discovers behind the faith and belief driving a warkari. "I have used 100 artists for this play and have roped in old and new theatre actors of Nagpur." The entry to the three-day festival is free. Schedule: June 10 Nirnay, Director: Parag Ghonge Shake the Sphere Carrier, Director: Rupesh Pawar June 11 Sawdhaan-Ek Yogkatha, Director: Sanjay Bhakre Kagadachi Topi, Director: Mithun Hatwar June 12 Palaki ... Ek Prawas Varnan, Director: Girish Pande
 Nagpur: Three members of the Taiwade family were arrested by   Imambada police for thrashing   Roshan Wasnik (29) and his uncle   Harish at Rambagh on Wednesday. All culprits are remanded to police custody till June 12. Another accused,   Vinod , is at large.  Vinod's sons   Sachin and Sanket, and a relative   Sushil Taiwade had assaulted Roshan and his uncle. Roshan is undergoing treatment for the injuries. Young officer dies in hit-and-run An unknown vehicle rammed into the two-wheeler of an   Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) official at   Chinchbhuvan on   Nagpur-Wardha Highway road on Tuesday late in the night. He succumbed on the spot. Sonegaon police have registered an offence of hit-and-run against an unidentified driver.    Mahendra Ramsingh Dhurve (25), a native of Balaghat of   Madhya Pradesh , was working as operation officer in HPCL. On Tuesday, Dhurve was returning from work when the accident took place. The driver of the killer vehicle fled from the spot. It was Dhurve's shoes which helped police to establish his workplace. Police informed at HPCL office from where they got his identity too.   Lalbihari Prasad (48), Dhurve's colleague, rushed to the spot and later lodged a complaint. Police had handed over Dhurve's body to his family. Police said that in their primary investigation, they didn't find   CCTV on the roadway from HPCL to the accident spot or any eyewitness come up front. Investigations are on. Rs1,50,000 cash stolen A theft of Rs1, 50,000 in cash was registered from the house of   Sharad Chandori (55) at Om Nagar, Ajni, between May 16 and June 9. Ajni police have registered an offence against unidentified thieves. Police said the complainant Chandori had kept Rs1, 20,000 below the bed in his bedroom and the remaining in other parts of the house. Yet the miscreants managed to identify the spots and decamp with the cash.
Mysuru: In its campaign to stop development projects atop Chamundi Hills, Mysuru Grahakara Parishat (MGP) is holding a public meeting on Sunday. MGP, which is leading the protests against the projects at the pilgrimage site, will discuss the strategy to keep up the campaign.This comes days after several organizations and NGOs took to the streets, opposing the projects worth Rs 70 crore. Mysuru royal family members Pramoda Devi Wadiyar and Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar and noted novelist S L Bhyrappa have joined the protesters. The government has launched the groundwork to build a multi-level parking lot and a commercial complex and set aside funds to widen the road.  MGP said that they will discuss stopping "unwanted development works" on the hills during a meeting at 4pm on Sunday. People, NGOs and organizations associating with the campaign will attend the meeting. It stated that the meeting will discuss ways of intensifying the campaign and involving the public in general, and youth in particular, to make it a people's movement. They will also discuss the decision taken at a meeting on June 3 to meet chief minister Siddaramaiah and urge him to shelve all construction works atop the hills.
People's Legal Forum (PLF) and U-Turn Foundation will conduct a workshop on 'Healthy life without medicines' at SP Bhat Hall in The Institute of Engineers on JLB Road at 9.30am on June 18. Jacob Vadakanchery, a naturopath from Kerala, will be the resource person. The workshop covers toxicity of medicines. Vadakanchery will guide the participants on how to have a new healthy lifestyle without depending on medicines. 9448576297. Cloth bags distributed: ColumbiaAsia Hospital distributed about 5,000 cloth bags among people at Loyal World and Mall of Mysore as of World Environment Day recently. Speaking on the occasion, MCC commissioner C G Betsurmath hailed the move which aimed at encouraging people to avoid using plastic carry bags. "If a shopkeeper gives you a plastic bag, you should say no. Instead, ask him/ her for cloth bags/ paper bags," he added.  Rly pensioners' meet: Railway Pensioners' Welfare Association will conduct a monthly meeting at A Manuel Hall on Seshadri Iyer Raod at 10.30am on June 12. Association president G Armugham will preside over the meeting. The annual general body of the association will be held on July 10.  Rangapravesha: Vasundhara Performing Arts Centre will conduct the 'Rangapravesha' of Anushrutha Kiran, disciple of Dr Vasundhara Doraswamy, at Jaganmohan Palace auditorium at 6pm on June 11. The programme will be inaugurated by Justice B S Patil. Minster H S Mahadeva Prasad will be the chief guest for the event.  Free eye camp: Mysuru Zilla Blind Protection Institute and Mysuru Race Club Charitable Trust, Eye Hospital will conduct a free eye camp in the hospital premises at Siddharthanagar at 9am on June 13. 0821-2472102.  Workshop on accupressure: Chaithanya Meditation Centre will organize a two-day workshop on 'Chinese acupressure' in its premises at Kuvempunagar between 9.30am and 6.30pm from June 11. C S Krishna Murthy from Indian Council of Acupressure and Yoga Parishat will conduct the workshop. 0821-2460104.  Tennis camp: Mysuru Tennis Wing and Puttaraj Gawai Grounds will conduct a tennis camp at tennis courts in JP Nagar, Vijayanagar, Siddhartha Layout and Bannimantap. Applications are be available at www.mysoretenniswing.com. 9035678000.  Hostel facility for students: The department of social welfare has invited applications from pre-university students for admission to government college boys' hostel, and from pre-university and degree students for government college girls' hostel in T Narasipura town. Eligible SC/ ST students whose parents' annual income is below Rs 2.50 lakh can submit their applications before June 15. 08227-260672.  Building needed to run hostel: The department of social welfare has planned to take a four-storey private building for rent to set up a hostel for scheduled caste students. The rent has been fixed based on PWD norms. The building should have 22 rooms, 10 bathrooms, 10 toilets, a dining hall and a kitchen. Interested landlords can approach the department before Saturday. 0821-2520910.  Yoga to cure obesity: As part of International Yoga Day celebrations, Government Ayurveda University and Hospital will conduct a free yoga training camp from June 13 to 18 for people who are suffering from obesity.
 Nagpur: Exploitation of natural resources has had a major impact on the ecological system. The damage threatens survival of humans and other living beings.   Biotechnology finds solutions through research in genetics and by developing technologies through biological processes so that the world can not only cope with but also evolve with ecological changes.  Biotechnology is being used for making a number of products from pharmaceuticals to alcoholic beverages and also being applied in waste management. The job of a biotechnologist has gained significance in the past few years, creating a variety of career opportunities. According to some professionals, biotechnology will continue to grow in the post-genomic era, in areas ranging from drug discovery, to stem cell research and genetic engineering. "In this field one can either go for pharmaceutical biotechnology or agricultural biotechnology. A student can make a career in teaching and research, industry or marketing. Remuneration for undergraduates starts from Rs5,000-Rs8,000 per month and for post graduates it starts from Rs12,000-Rs 15,000 per month," says Prashant Thakare, associate professor with department of biotechnology, Amravati University. The bachelor's degree programme in biotechnology is of four years. Students opting for biotechnology need to have good foundation in mathematics, physics, biology and chemistry. Avinash Upadhyay, director of Hislop School of Biotechnology, says that one must have interest in life sciences to learn biotechnology. "Majority of my students have opted for research and their careers are flourishing. Some of them are working in the filed of pharmaceutical biotechnology, some in food sciences while others in agricultural biotechnology," he says. Arti Shanware, assistant professor at   Rajiv Gandhi Biotechnology Centre, Nagpur University, says Nagpur has many colleges that offer UG, PG and PhD in Biotechnology. "However, they are yet to catch up with standards of colleges in western Maharashtra and abroad," she says. Speaking about the syllabus, she says it also covers how to form a start-up in biotechnology, how to explore the markets, how to create business plans and how money is to be raised through venture capitalists. "In Nagpur, one can get into teaching and research after completing a course in biotechnology. Now, the government is encouraging start-ups which is a great thing. If one wishes to make a career in biotech in Nagpur, s/he can definitely consider entrepreneurship," she says. Upadhyay believes that geographical territories may not necessarily limit the scope of this stream. He says, "There are industries like Unijules Life Sciences Ltd., Baidyanath, Ankur seeds, National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) etc that provide opportunities to biotech professionals in Nagpur. If one has the means to go abroad, then there is no limit to opportunities there," Thakare feels Nagpur will develop as hub for pharmaceuticals that will provide great opportunities to students in the coming years. "Presently, cities like Pune, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Bangalore have more employment opportunities for biotechnologists," he says. (Reporting by Shrushti Wanare) Quotes Biotechnology is a field where you can explore various avenues. You can deal with plants, tissue culture or even microbiology. It helps you innovate and become multitalented in the field of life sciences. My next step is to do postdoctoral in USA so that I can get job of a scientist. The most rewarding thing about this field is that you get a chance to contribute to society. Neha Thakre | PhD, Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology, NU This field can help the country in the most innovative ways possible. India has a lot of scope in this field, especially in agricultural biotechnology. At this stage, I am planning to form a start-up so that I can contribute to society. The best part is that the government is supporting start-ups. Ekshika Bhagtani | MSc second year, Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology, NU I first learnt about 'biotechnology' in Std VIII. I've been hooked to this field ever since. I have been selected for MSc in molecular biology and tumour biology in Sweden University after which I want to do PhD in the same. I want to develop technologies for painless treatment of various diseases. Bernadette Mathew | third year, bsc, hislop college  (Interviews by Shrushti Wanare)  COLLEGES OFFERING BIOTECHNOLOGY COURSES   Hislop College, Nagpur  Course: BSc, M.Sc and PhD Fees: Rs8000 — Rs25000 per semester Intake capacity: 60 Duration: 3 years  LIT, Nagpur  Course: BTech, MTech Intake capacity: 12 Fees: Rs25,000 Duration: 2-4 year courses  Rajiv Gandhi Biotechnology Centre, Nagpur University  Course: MSc and PhD Fees: Rs11000-Rs22000 per year Intake capacity: 10 Duration: 2 years
Nagpur: A bogus travelling ticket examiner (TTE) was nabbed on Thursday in Nagpur division of Central Railway. The fake TTE, who was caught red-handed in S-2 coach of 12810 Howrah-Mumbai Mail, has been identified as   Suraj Govindrao Debre (24) of Yavatmal. The accused had donned a black coat and used to collect from Rs50 to 500 from illiterate passengers, mostly labour class. According to sources, ticket checking staff at the railway station were being handed over duplicate receipts by a certain class of passengers for the past six days. "We found that the receipts were not the ones issued by the railways. On the receipts, abbreviations of three different zones were printed. Surprisingly, it made no mention of either   South East Central Railway (SECR) or Central Railway, which operate here," sources said. They added that if an alarm had been raised, the culprit would have got time to escape. After senior Central Railway officials were informed, chief ticket inspector (CTI) DN   Devangan and   Abhay Ojha laid a trap and nabbed Debre, who was checking tickets in S2 coach.   Central Railway PRO PD   Patil said the accused was handed over to RPF.
 Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of     Bombay High Court  on Thursday adjourned the hearing on PIL alleging discrimination in allotment of kerosene quota for rural areas. Earlier, the petitioner's counsel Firdos  Mirza informed that a new law is proposed by the centre to give validity to Adhar card and it was passed by the     Parliament  .   He pointed out that if distribution of kerosene is linked to the Aadhaar card, it would wipe out maximum deficiencies and significantly reduced irregularities.  A division bench comprising justice   Bhushan Gavai and justice   Vinay Deshpande then granted two weeks to file a reply. The court was hearing a PIL filed by   Gadchiroli villager   Kawduji Pund through Mirza alleging discrimination in allotment of kerosene quota for rural areas. During last hearing, the state government informed that it started process of configuring data regarding gas connections in state and was coordinating with state level corporations (SLCs) that included oil-producing companies. Principal secretary for food and civil supplies   Deepak Kapoor was personally present in court and informed about the government's stand. The judges then directed government to conduct a survey in this regard and stamp all ration cards with those having gas connections. The petitioner contended that though requirement of kerosene is more in rural areas, the quota fixed by the government is two litres per beneficiary per month in comparison to four litres in urban households, and of late it was reduced to 470 ML. Following it, the court granted an interim stay to government's existing kerosene distribution policy on July 1 last year, terming it as palpable, arbitory and irrational.
Mysuru: Sniffer dog Rana, which is housed in Bandipur Tiger Reserve, will be brought to Mysuru city on Friday for a medical check-up. Top doctors from City Veterinary Hospital and canine clubs will attend to the dog. The two-and-a-half-year dog, which took ill for some days last month, had recovered. But latest health updates claim that the German shepherd-breed dog is inflicted with ticks. Because of the presence of external parasites on its body, the canine, which cracked several wildlife crimes, is looking pale.However, Rana's handler Prakash S Honnakore denied that Rana is sick or dull. "During summer, the temperature in forests is high. So the dog's fur is trimmed. Every month, veterinarians from the Mysuru hospital do a medical check-up. Proper diet is being provided to maintain his health. Rana is fit and fine," he added.Bandipur Tiger Reserve veterinarian Dr Nagaraj told TOI that Rana will be brought to the hospital on Friday for a general check-up. "There are specialist vets and clinics with advanced laboratories in the city. They will do a check-up on the dog and find if there is any problem," he said.
Mysuru: Mysuru has got a new yoga centre in Oriolus Scientific Yoga and Naturopathy Centre that aims at teaching yogic techniques and preparation of medicinal food. The centre's founder Dr Vijaykumar said the purpose of opening free yoga centre is to serve society. "People are suffering from illness, obesity and diabetes. Because of high cost of treatment, they continue to suffer silently. We want to help such people by giving them training in yogic techniques as it helps heal many illnesses," he said, adding: "Many programmes have been lined up on weight reduction, cardiac rehabilitation, pregnancy care, diabetics' rehabilitation, backache care, arthritis, neurological rehabilitation, women's healthcare and deaddiction. We will also educate our learners on preparing medical food, which is something unique, and a first among yoga centres." "Yoga is a powerful tool to cure illnesses. I came to know about this while getting treatment for injuries which I sustained in a road accident. I had to undergo nearly 20 surgeries. I practised yoga to be back on my feet," he said, adding: "I did a course in it yoga get more knowledge about the techniques and later pursued master's in yoga and naturopathy from Chennai University and research in traditional food and medicines from UoM."  District Ayush officer S Hariganesh said: "As per norms, we will give certificate to yoga exponents graduated in yoga and naturopathy from Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences. They should also register their institutions under Karnataka Private Medical Establishment Act."  Mysuru has about 50 yoga centres offering short- and long-term programmes. Some of them are charging heavily. Foreign nationals willing to learn yogic techniques land in Mysuru, the hub of yoga activities.
Mysuru: The Mysuru division of South Western Railway (SWR) is planning to eliminate unmanned level crossing gates by the end of this fiscal. There are 158 unmanned level crossing gates in the division, which will be attended to, railway officials said on Thursday while announcing various events lined up as part of International Level Crossing Awareness Day celebrations.Of the 158 gates, 130 will be manned, while road over bridges (ROBs) will be built at 28. According to senior divisional commercial manager K Anil Kumar, 134 gates in the division have been closed since 2012-13. The drive will be launched on Friday, when public support will be sought to spread awareness among road users for preventing accidents at such gates.Accidents occur due to negligence of road users who risk their lives while crossing the gates. During the drive, the railway will spread the word on preventing man-made accidents through 3 Es - education, engineering and enforcement. They have sought the cooperation of road users in preventing accidents at unmanned gates by following safely rules. "Motorists must halt at unmanned level crossings and look for trains before proceeding. They should also not use cellphones while approaching or passing through such gates," they said.The railway is also looking at improving roads near the gates and build speed-breakers. The drive will include counselling road users, appointment of Gate Mitras at vulnerable unmanned gates, intensive counselling to staff to ensure elimination of human failures and safety propagandas in the vicinity of the gates.  Kumar said that a special campaign on safety at the gates coming in Mysuru-Chamarajanagar section is under way.
 Nagpur : Mihan-SEZ may have a state-of-the-art hospital to treat foreign patients in coming days.     Indo-UK Institute of Health  ( IUIH ), an initiative on collaboration in healthcare between the two countries, has Mihan-SEZ on its radar. A team of Make-in-India officials and those from IUIH visited the SEZ on Thursday with a proposal to take up around 150 acres land in the SEZ . Further discussions will take place before final allotment.  If it materializes, the SEZ will get a 1,000-bed multi-speciality hospital. A UK-based medical college, nursing college and a post-graduate training academy may also come along. The other facilities can be an institute for paramedics, supply chain office and a unit to manufacture medical implants, said a press release issued by   Maharashtra Airport Development Company (MADC), the state government agency developing the Mihan-SEZ. Since the hospital will be coming up within the SEZ, it will be predominantly meant for foreign patients. This is because in a SEZ, any undertaking has to fulfil the net foreign exchange earning norms. This means the value of exports has to be more than that of imports. Here imports would be in the form of medical equipment and exports will be earning through healthcare and other services. For the domestic patients, there were plans to later take up another land parcel in the non-SEZ area, said a source in the MADC who was part of negotiations with   IUIH . The hospital in Mihan is a part of the pact signed during Prime Minster   Narendra Modi 's visit to the England for establishing 10 hospitals across the country. IUIH is the nodal agency driving its implementation in the country. The team also met the Chief Minister   Devendra Fadnavis . The project is being planned to promote medical tourism in city by offering world class medical treatment to foreign as well as Indian patients. It is expected the project will create around 1 lakh jobs across the country. "IUIH supports healthcare links between UK and India. It also leads projects and healthcare work force plans between private and government bodies," said the MADC press release. Earlier there was a similar plan by   Johns Hopkins Institute of US for setting up a hospital complex in Mihan. It did not take off. Now with IUIH coming, MADC hopes this may again pull back Johns Hopkins and some institutes affiliated to   University of Oxford , said a source.
Nagpur: An initiative taken by mayor   Pravin Datke and People For Animals (PFA) saved the life of a calf on Thursday. It had fallen into an uncovered manhole near JP Cassettes,   Gokulpeth , at about 8am. Its mother remained standing near the manhole until 10pm when the calf was rescued. PFA activist   Karishma Galani said that the residents had called the local corporator in the morning but she did not do anything. "Our member   Sharda Bangde was passing through the area at around 9pm when she saw spotted the cow. When she tried to drive it away, lest it fall into the manhole, residents told her about the calf. She called me and I informed the mayor in turn. The mayor sent a   JCB , which cracked the slab and rescued the calf," she told TOI.
Mysuru: The South Graduates' Constituency poll to the Legislative Council saw 43.92% voting on Thursday. Polling held in four districts saw 52,894 of a total of 1,20,445 voters exercising their franchise. Chamarajanagar saw the highest with 55.23% voting, followed by Mandya with 50.62%, while Hassan recorded 40.85%. Mysuru's vote was just 39.63%. A total of 17 candidates, including BJP's MV Ravishankar, JD(S) candidate KT Srikantegowda, Congress' HN Ravindra and Independent candidate Prof KS Bhagavan were in the fray. Voting were held in 130 polling stations in the four districts. Voting began at 8am at a slow pace. By 10am, just 6.36% (Hassan 5.01%, Mysuru 7%, Mandya 6.05% and Chamarajanagara 7.02%) of the 1.20 lakh electorate voted amid tight security. But as the day progressed, voters started pouring into polling stations and were seen queuing up. By noon, the turnout recorded was 15.46% (Hassan 14.09%, Mysuru 13.50%, Mandya 18.82% and Chamarajanagar 19.53%) and by 2pm, touched 28.51% with Chamarajanagar claiming the highest turnout of 35.55% followed by Mandya with 35.55%, Hassan 26.69% and Mysuru with just 26.11%. While Prof Bhagavan, MV Ravishankar and noted writer BL Byrappa exercised their franchise at Kuvempunagar PU College, KT Srikantegowda cast his vote at Sadvidya semi-residential pre-university college in Vijayanagar. While former minister SA Ramdas voted at Bala Bodhini School in Chamundipuram, MLA MK Somashekar cast his vote at Sanskrit Patasala. There was confusion and chaos among BJP party workers as MP Pratap Simha went from one polling station to another, searching for his name in the electoral list to cast his vote. At 10am, Simha visited polling booth 31-D at People's Park, opposite Suburban Bus Stand. He found his name was not on the voters' list. Irked by the incident, Simha decided to try his luck in other polling booths and on the officials' suggestion, he visited Balabodhini School in Chamundipuram. To his misfortune, his name was missing here too. Finally, Simha exercised his franchise at Sadvidya Semi-Residential PU College in Vijayanagar in the afternoon. Simha later blamed electoral officers for the confusion.  Pandals removed  There were some tense moments at People's Park polling station when the tahsildar directed polling staff to remove the pendals erected by political parties, claiming they were inside restricted boundary. Party workers protested against the tahasildar, stating the pendals were far from the polling booth. Later, the pandals were shifted further away.  Infighting advantage  Congress candidate Dr Ravindra, who cast his vote at Pandavapura taluk in Mandya district, said voters have favoured him as the party has given good governance in the state. Hassan and Mandya were once a stronghold of the JD(S), but not anymore. "Congress leaders have done good work in all the constituencies. There are a lot of differences among leaders in the BJP and JD(S). Though i am not contesting on others' weakness, their infighting will be an advantage for the Congress," he said.
Meerut: Displaced from their homes after the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013, over a thousand men who had first settled in neighbouring Shamli district have slowly migrated to other states such as Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan for employment. Some have even gone as far as Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Chattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra.  Afkar India Foundation, an organisation working for the rehabilitation of riot victims, said that most displaced families lost all their documents after the riots, which made them ineligible for government schemes. As a result, they have had to migrate to other states and work as labourers.  "After the riots, over 50,000 people were displaced. Around 6,000 families were uprooted from their homes and were forced to shift base. Of these, close to 2,800 families came and settled in the neighbouring Shamli district. Some of these families were from Shamli district itself. It's been almost three years since the riots and most of these families don't even have ration cards yet. Many don't even have water or power connections. They live in deplorable conditions and they resort to manual labour to make ends meet," said Akram Akhtar, project manager at Afkar India Foundation, an NGO that works for the rehabilitation of riot victims.  He added, "Since they do not have basic documents, they are ineligible for government benefits like Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA). They used to be prosperous farmers back in Muzaffarnagar and now they are struggling to make ends meet. So most people were forced to migrate to other states. We have conducted surveys among 600 families so far and found 450 people from these families had migrated. Based on rough estimates, we can say that at least a thousand men from Kandhla have migrated to other states."  Mohammed Noor Ali, from Muzaffarnagar's Kekra village, one of the worst-hit during the riots, was forced to travel nearly 250 km to Ludhiana to seek employment. "During the riots, we left our home as soon as we could. We didn't have time to find our ration cards. I still don't have a ration card. As a result, I had to go to Punjab to find work. I now work at a factory that makes sewing machines."  Manoj Kumar, additional development officer (ADO), said, "We have made ration cards for nearly everyone who has come to us. We have also asked the displaced people to apply for the documents online."  Madan Yadav, district supplies officer (DSO), said, "After the riots, nine villages were placed on the priority list. Six of these are in Muzaffarnagar district and three in Shamli. Displaced residents from there have been given ration cards. As far as people from other villages are concerned, they are scattered across the district. They can apply via the normal process. If they face problems then they can approach the district administration or the supplies inspector."
Nagpur: Taking cognizance of large number of vacant posts in all four state agriculture universities (SAUs) in Maharashtra, the National Agricultural Education Accreditation Board (NAEAB) under the   Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has put on hold the accreditation of all of them. The unprecedented action, convenyed through a letter dated May 5, 2016, will not be revoked until the universities took satisfactory action and communicated the same to the Council. ICAR has sent the letters for all four SAUs to the governor's office too. The letter (copy with TOI) states, "considering large number of vacant faculty positions across the colleges in Maharashtra state on the one hand and involvement of faculty in managing academic affairs of private affiliated colleges to Agriculture Universities on the other hand, the NAEAM felt that to infuse quality assurance in agriculture education and delivery of course curriculum for better outcome, the issue related with faculty and management of private affiliated college needs to be resolved by the Universities. Until then the accreditation may be put on hold." The deputy director general (education) of ICAR, N S Rathore told TOI that since education was a concurrent subject it was responsibility of both central and state governments. "ICAR would withdraw educational grants which means it will affect new infrastructure development, students' amenities, faculty improvement and overall quality of education in the SAUs. ICAR gives grants to ensure the SAUs have best syllabus, courses and follow latest education standards. The amount of grant, however, differs for each SAU depending on number of students, type of colleges etc, " he said. The four SAUs whose accreditation is on hold are   Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth (MPKV) in Rahuri, Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth (PDKV) in Akola in Vidarbha, the Vasantrao Naik Marathwada Krishi Vidyapeeth (VNMKV) in   Parbhani , and the Balasaheb Sawant Konkan Krishi Vidyapeeth (BSKKV), Dapoli. Even a month after SAUs receiving the ICAR letter, they have not taken any step for filling up the posts. Officials in governor's office told TOI the letters had been forwarded to the state agriculture secretary for appropriate action about a fortnight back. Withholding the accreditation is being looked at as very serious development in academic and research circles in the state. Former vice-chancellor of PDKV G M Bharad told TOI that since general public did not know the implications of withholding accreditation, the matter would only bring bad name to the universities. "The universities should try to avoid such situations. It is also true the universities are not entirely responsible for vacant posts. The Maharashtra Council of Agriculture Education Research (MCAER) Pune and the VCs or indirectly the state government were equally responsible," he said. VCs of all four SAUs TOI spoke to also claimed the vacancies were built up over years and state administration was equally responsible for the situation. It had banned new recruitments often. They also blamed the MCAER for not filling up the posts of professors and deans, directors and heads for long time. On the other hand, students as well as research associates felt VCs were directly responsible for large number of vacancies. "As per Maharashtra Agricultural University Statute No 74, in emergency VC has powers of appointing associate professors and lecturers who constitute the maximum number teachers. These posts could be regularized later. MCAER too can make emergency appointments under Statute 45 for only professor and above posts. Whoever may be responsible for the vacancies, students are the sufferers. There are virtually 40-50% of associate professors' and lecturers' posts vacant in PDKV for years. As observed by the ICAR, the existing teachers instead of teaching in university colleges are always kept engaged in non-teaching work of administration examination etc. The university has been playing with future of students," said a senior professor at Akola Agriculture College.   Total number of colleges under each SAU  · MPKV Rahuri — seven aided colleges (784 students), 55 unaided colleges (4490 students) · PDKV Akola--- Ten aided colleges (755 students), 24 unaided (2180 students) · VNMKV Parbhani --- 11 aided colleges (692 students), 37 unaided (3220 students) · BSKKV Dapoli--- six aided colleges (356 students), 19 unaided (1400 students) · Total 33 aided colleges (2,377 students) and 140 unaided colleges (11,350 students) PDKV Akola · Almost 98% of posts of deans, associate deans, heads of departments and about 45-50% posts of professors, associate professors and lecturers vacant across the university · Vacant posts amount to 40-50 professors, 100 associate professors and 200 lecturers · Posts of dean, faculty of agriculture Akola, director research and director extension vacant · Posts of about 7-10 associate deans heading colleges, 10-12 head of the departments vacant · No separate posts for deans, associate dean and heads of various specialities in horticulture department, forestry and engineering The VCs Speak Up PDKV Akola — R G Dani — Filling up posts is easier said than done. There was ban on recruitment for three years. It was allowed only two years back. Six different agencies are involved in roster clearance. Process has been streamlined only recently. Registrar of PDKV, who is appointed by state government, is at loggerheads with the university. No clarity on percentage of posts that can be filled by VC. MCAER should help us and not supervise us. MPKV Rahuri- K P Viswanatha — I joined just 5-6 months back. There was a ban on recruitment. Our rosters were not cleared. In the last few months there is improvement. I was in governor's office and mantralaya on Thursday. Governor's office has assured to resolve the issue in a few days. VNMKV Parbhani — B Venkateswarlu -- There have been some problems in filling up the posts. The MCAER too needs to support us instead of just administering us. BSKKV Dapoli — Tapas Bhattacharya — Dapoli University has been filling up posts regularly. It has the least number of vacancies. I just appointed 52 people through Career Advancement System.
Shivamogga: A state level convention of graduates who are qualified to be teachers has been organised in the city on Sunday to demand the state government to fill vacancies of teachers' posts in primary and high schools. President of the Association of Qualified and Trained Teachers M Yellappa said thousands of graduates who have passed D.Ed, B.Ed, DP.Ed and MP.Ed are loitering without jobs as the government has not recruited teachers for the past five years. On the other hand, the private schools are exploiting these graduates by paying them meagre salaries much against the Supreme Court verdict that qualified teachers must get a minimum salary of Rs 13,500 per month. "The convention will make an effort to draw the attention of the government towards these issues," he added.
Nagpur:  Steering clear from any controversial or sensational remarks,   RSS chief   Mohan Bhagwat on Thursday stressed on unity in the country to foil designs by external forces to fragment and destabilize India. "When we say 'Bharat Mata ki Jai', it is to strengthen this bonding of unity. Such need for nationalism is even acknowledged by the Constitution," Bhagwat remarked.  Addressing around 1,000 activists from across the country participating in RSS's annual third-year training course, he said the Sangh and its work totally focuses on national interests. "This camp represents how, despite barriers of language, food habits and traditions, we can come together for nation building," said the RSS chief. He also used the occasion to explain that the Sangh is often misunderstood by countrymen who do not try to come and see 'what we are doing.' "The Sangh is open for all scrutiny. We invite you to come and see our work and clear your misgivings," Bhagwat said, adding that the Sangh is only working towards fostering cherished values that have stood the test of time and helped the country's unity and well being.  "Even CK Annadurai, who proclaimed distinct Dravidian identity, forgot all differences raised his voice when China attacked India saying attack on Himalayas is attack on Tamil pride. History tells us in the past that we have fought between ourselves and offered our land on a platter to outsiders. Now time has come to learn our lessons from it and stand united to fight all forces inimical to country's interests," he said.  Bhagwat, in a brief reference, appreciated Prime Minister     Narendra Modi  's address to the US Congress on Wednesday and said Modi had very aptly stressed that protecting environment is our civilization ethos.   Chief guest Rantidev Sengputa, editor of Bengali newspaper 'Vartman', hailed RSS for its good work and said it had realized the dream of     Swami Vivekanand  of spreading message of cultural unity. Sengupta also warned against Pakistan and China's dubious plans to destabilise and fragment India.
NEW DELHI: As many as 8.6 lakh people in Punjab - of a total population of 2.77 crore - abuse heroin or other opiods, an AIIMS survey says.      The widely-publicized spat between Udta Punjab producer Anurag Kashyap and Censor Board chief Pahlaj Nihalani has brought attention again to this massive drug problem in the state.      But Deputy CM Sukhbir Badal says: "Some opportunistic non-Punjabis, political parties, and leaders" have painted a "distorted picture of Punjab as a drug haven."      Films are make-believe, sure, but recent findings should give the deputy chief minister some pause.      Alarming statistics      The Supreme Court in November 2015 said that drug dealers and peddlers had "spoiled an entire generation in Punjab."      It's right. A survey in January of ten Punjab districts conducted by the National Drug Dependence Treatment Centre (NDDTC) at AIIMS revealed that 18-35 year olds accounted for 76% of opioid users in Punjab. Opioids are a class of drugs that includes some prescription analgesics, morphine and heroin.      National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data showed that average drug abuse among youth in Punjab in 2013 was 51.6%, a figure that's 18 times higher than the national average.      Heroin, which is primarily smuggled into Punjab from Pakistan - allegedly with support from its spy agency, the Inter-Intelligence Services - accounted for 86.6 % of total opioid consumption in the state . That's worth a staggering Rs. 7,500 crore, the survey added. Moreover, the state's 2.3 lakh opioid abusers spend a total of approximately Rs 20 crores every day on drugs.      Injectible drugs and HIV      The NDDTC survey suggests that the number of injecting drug users in the state is higher than was previously thought. UN reports from 2008 and 2012 also showed the drugs of choice in Punjab were pharmaceutical injectables. This prompted Dr. Atul Ambedkar, the principal author of the study, to say that Punjab risked having to contend with "an explosive epidemic" of HIV-infections.      Indeed, Navreet Singh Kang, Union additional secretary in the Ministry of Family Welfare, said in February 2015 said that upto 21.1 percent of the state's injection drug-users could be HIV-positive.      Drug-fueled crime      NCRB data show that in 2013, Punjab had the highest number of criminals booked under the National Drugs and Psychotropic Substances act. These people were responsible for the production or trafficking of banned substances like opium, cannabis, pseudoephedrine, poppy husk and heroin. LiveMint reported in 2015 that the state accounted for 60% of all illegal drug seizures in India.      With inputs from PTI
The state government has released Rs 9 lakh from Chief Minister Relief Fund on a recommendation from MLC Ivan D'Souza to persons suffering from different ailments The beneficiaries are: Naina Priya Cutinha, Bajpe; Nagaprasad A G Beluru; Mabel Maria D'Souza, Moodushedde; Agnelo D'Souza, Belvai; Anwar Hussain, Bunder; Poornima, Belthangady; Rohan D'Silva, Jeppu; Herald Veigas, Marakada; Vasu, Moodigere; and Claret Norbert.  Book release: Union ministers of state for commerce (independent charge) Nirmala Sitharaman and union minister for state for home affairs Haribhai P Choudhary on Wednesday released a book titled Little Black Book For Teachers authored by Ananth G Prabhu of Vikas PU College.  733rd branch opening: Shivasharanappa Kattoli, Devadurga tahshildar inaugurated the 733rd branch of city-based private sector bank - Karnataka Bank Ltd at Devadurga on Thursday.  Graft case reported: National Institute of Technology, Karnataka (NITK), Surathkal in a statement stated complaints on alleged corruption in construction of mega hostels has been referred to anti-corruption bureau of CBI by R J D'Souza, former professor of the Institute. The investigative agencies have closed the complaint.  Saplings on sale: Grafted saplings of different varieties are on sale at different nurseries at the department of horticulture in Dakshina Karnataka. They are situated at Padil, Thumbe, Maddadka and Hosagadde. Call: 0824-2444298.  Youth award: The department of youth empowerment and sports has invited applications for state youth award for 2015-16. Interested candidates aged between 15-35 years are eligible. The last date to apply is July 20.  Financial support: DYFI, Dakshina Kannada district unit has extended financial support of Rs 30,000 to a poor family in Bajal. Santosh Bajal, district secretary, DYFI said that Vaman Nayak, who was small time mechanic had lost livelihood after he met with an accident.
Coimbatore: Two people were caught red handed by police while cleaning 15kg meat of a spotted deer at Periyandipalayam in Tirupur city on Wednesday night. Later, the police detained two more people in connection with this case. All the four were handed over to forest department officials. They were fined 25,000 each by the forest officials and let off on Thursday. The four claimed that they did not hunt down the deer but had bought the meat from a duo near Avinashi. "We are yet to ascertain if that claim is true. Only after we nab the two men who sold the meat we will get the complete picture,'' said a police officer. The police got a tip off that two men were in possession of deer meat at Periyandipalayam. When a team from Tirupur central station reached the spot, two men were preparing to cook the meat. The duo identified as Mani, 60, from Andipalayam and Venkatesh, 23, a native of Tiruvannamalai, both working in a textile unit, were rounded up.During the probe, the duo said that two more people were involved in the case. Following the tip off, police detained Saravanan, 23, a native of Pudukkottai and Mani's son Ravi, 30 from Andipalayam. Police then handed over the four as well as the seized meat to the forest department officials on Thursday."The four claimed that they were not involved in hunting deer. They said the meat was purchased from two people at Valayampalayam near Avinashi. We have formed a team to nab the deer hunters," said N Muralidharan, range officer (in-charge), Tirupur forest range.He said all the four were booked under the Wild Life Protection act. As per the act, deer is categorized as schedule 3 animal. They were produced before A Periyasamy, district forest officer, Tirupur forest division on Thursday. The DFO imposed a fine of 25,000 each on them and later they were let off.
Shivamogga: A truck carrying liquor worth Rs 20 lakh fell off a bridge near Agumbe in Theerthahalli taluk on Tuesday night. According to police, the driver lost control over thre vehicle while negotiating a turn. The truck fell into a 20 feet deep ditch. As news spread of the incident, villagers tried to grab the liquor bottles, but they were prevented by the police who had reached the spot by then.
Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal on Thursday fell ill during his Sangat Darshan programme at Fatehgarh Churian, following which he had to leave the event mid-way for Chandigarh.The 88-year-old leader is running fever, officials said.They said the chief minister Parkash Singh Badal has reached here and all his engagements for the next two days have been cancelled. Meanwhile, chief minister Badal has been advised by the doctors to take rest for the next couple of days and to not attend any public event. His schedule, therefore has been changed.The chief minister's national affairs advisor, Harcharan Bains, said Badal has a mild fever and it was decided to cancel the second half of the Sangat Darshan programme.Bains said doctors who examined him at his residence this afternoon attributed the fever to exertion.The Sangat Darshan Programmes have been temporarily postponed. The fresh schedule for the programs will be announced later, Bains said. PTI
DEHRADUN: While much hue and cry was created over the mahapanchayat called by BJP MLA Kunwar Pranav Singh Champion in Landhaura, his party has maintained a distance from the event. Singh had won the assembly election from Khanpur and was among the nine Congress MLAs who turned rebel on March 18. After being disqualified from the state assembly, he along with others recently joined the BJP. On June 1, a communal clash was reported in Landhaura area of Roorkee, in which Singh's uncle was also named in the case filed afterwards. Singh had called a mahapanchayat on June 9 over the issue, for which he claimed that a gathering of over one lakh was expected. BJP spokesman Munna Singh Chauhan told TOI, "This was not a party programme and was organised by Singh himself." Chauhan added that the programme focused on one community and the party had no role in it.
MANGALURU: Mangaluru based Indian Coast Guard Ship Shoor made its maiden entry to Karwar port on Friday after completion of successful rescue operation of MT Infinity-1. ICGS Shoor, a 105 meters Offshore Patrol Vessel fitted with advanced navigational and communication equipment, was commissioned on April 16 and is based here. ICGS Shoor was tasked on an urgent rescue operation of Motor Tanker Infinity-1 at 9.05pm on June 8.The tanker had listed to its right side and was sinking due to ingress of seawater. ICGS Shoor sailed out within half an hour of the notice and reached the distressed tanker at 11pm. Thereafter, the ship dispatched its specialist damage control team to MT Infinity-1 and undertook de-flooding operation continuously for 35 hours in rough sea conditions and high wind speeds including the night time, K R Suresh, DIG, Commander, Coast Guard Karnataka said.MT Infinity-1 was brought safely to Karwar port at 9.45am on Friday along with its 14 crew members and cargo with efforts of the ship's damage control team and watchful eyes of ICGS Shoor, which remained in the vicinity of distressed tanker. ICGS Shoor has maximum speed of 23 knots and endurance of 6000 nautical miles and has the capability to perform the role of a command platform and accomplish multi-mission tasks at sea like Search and Rescue.It also has pollution control, law enforcement and medical evacuation capabilities as well. The presence of ICGS Shoor has provided an impetus to the maritime protection of the Western Seaboard especially the state of Karnataka, Suresh said, adding in order to augment the force levels in Karnataka, Indian Coast Guard has planned to base a Shoor class OPV at Karwar in future. The process of setting up a dedicated berth at Karwar is on, Suresh added.
Kanpur: Taking lesson from the death a guard after a hoarding fell on him during the storm on Tuesday, the authorities of Kanpur municipal corporation have decided that hoardings and mobile towers installed illegally on the top of buildings would be removed. The KMC has decided to issue notices to the advertisement firms and building owners, who have got hoardings and towers installed on the rooftops.  The civic body has already launched a drive to pull down illegal hoardings. In the past two days, KMC has issued notices to buildings owners, where hoardings and towers were installed.ADM finance Shatrughan Singh, who is also the nodal officer for disaster management in the city, has imposed ban on the installation of hoardings and mobile towers on the roof tops. He has asked all the sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) to issue notices to the people on whose rooftop giant hoardings are installed. KMC spokesman Rajeev Shukla said that all the hoardings installed over the roof-tops in the city are illegal and notices have been issued to the landlords, asking them to get these hoardings removed. If they do not demolish the hoardings, the corporation will impose fine, he said.
Nashik: The news of monsoon's arrival in Kerala and progress up to Konkan has kindled hopes of Nashikites longing for pre-monsoon rains throughout the day on Thursday. Partly cloudy sky and increasing humidity kept the hopes for showers alive. However, as per the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast, Nashik has to wait for at least 48 hours more to receive heavy pre-monsoon showers. The proper arrival and set-in of monsoon may take four more days. Meanwhile, some villages in the hilly regions of the district received showers on Wednesday and Thursday. "The southwest monsoon has advanced into some parts of the central Arabian Sea. Conditions are favourable for further progress of the monsoon into some parts of south Konkan and Goa in the next 48 hours. The IMD has issued warning of heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places over south Konkan and Goa in the next 24 hours. However, the central and north Maharashtra has to wait for four more days for rains," said a senior official at IMD Pune. The weekly forecast of the IMD says heavy rain is likely at places over south-central Maharashtra on June 13. "We cannot rule out light rains in the next few days but the intensity will increase gradually," the official said.According to private weather forecasting agency Skymet, weather conditions are favourable for advancement of monsoon during the next three to four days. "Initially, rains will be light but will pick up pace as monsoon draws closer. Nashik may receive light rains on June 11." Meanwhile, Zodge village in Malegaon tehsil received thundershowers on Wednesday evening. Villages in Kalwan and Baglan tehsils also received showers, but cities continued to sizzle. While Malegaon recorded highest maximum temperature of 42 degrees on Thursday, Nashik recorded 36.8 degrees celsius. Nashik received 98.1mm average rainfall in June.
Mangaluru: A total of 93,000 ration cards have been distributed in Dakshina Kannada district in last 3-years. Likewise, 32,751 ration cards too have been cancelled in this period. The process of linking Aadhaar card with ration cards too is on in the district and 1.71 lakh cards have been linked thus far. The department of food and civil supplies is yet to dispose 13,000 applications received for ration cards and new ration cards will be distributed at the earliest.Raju Mogaveera, deputy director of the department, informed members of Dakshina Kannada zilla panchayat that ration card holders need not go to taluk centres for getting their biometric details captured and can instead get this done at the panchayat office. M S Mohammad, member, said the question of cancelling ration card to BPL families will not arise if the verification is done with due diligence at the card issuing stage itself. Confusion over RTE The meeting also discussed in length the problems faced by parents in getting their children admitted to private schools under RTE Act. The main issue, Mamatha Gatty, member said pertains to schools deciding on their jurisdictional boundary which lies up to 1 km. Noting that there is enough confusion on this issue, she said this is denying many children their rightful chance at quality education. Members Vinod Kumar, Harish Kanjipili and others voiced their views.Deputy director, department of public instruction, Walter D'Mello said a total of 1,889 seats have to be distributed under RTE in Dakshina Kannada district. In the first phase, 927 seats have been allotted and the remaining seats will be allotted in the second phase. As per government guidelines, students will not be admitted under RTE in schools that are outside the village limits in rural areas, the official said and awareness has been created on the issue.P I Sreevidya, chief executive officer, Dakshina Kannada zilla panchayat, said strict action will be taken against schools covered under the Act if they are found to be needlessly harassing students and parents for admission under RTE.  The meeting decided to draw the attention of the government to the confusion regarding demarcation of urban and rural areas. Sreevidya also directed the health department to ensure sufficient stock of ART drugs in hospitals.
Nagpur:  Gadchiroli police have been left red-faced on Thursday after an AK-47 assault rifle and 120 live cartridges were 'misplaced' by a constable of the   Special Action Group (SAG).  It's learnt that constable     Halami  (first name not known) had kept the weapon and ammunitions, issued to him, at the office of the C-60 commando unit. The C-60 unit's office is located in the adjoining premises of the district police headquarters. The place, from where the weapon and ammunitions have been misplaced, is highly protected and considered sensitive.  Gadchiroli SP   Sandip Patil , already under the order of transfer, said that it is still not clear whether the weapon or the ammunitions have been stolen or misplaced. "We are inquiring into the matter," he said. The incident refreshed the memory of stolen arms and weapons recovered from a well behind the police headquarters in the Naxal-affected district in June in 2013. Two police personnel, including an officer, were dismissed in the case which is still under way.  The cops, arrested earlier, are now out in bail. They have been slapped with stringent sections including that of waging war against the government and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967.
Mysuru: A year after a minor girl was married to a relative almost twice her age, she was on Wednesday rescued by authorities of the department of women and child welfare. The 15-year-old, who has completed Class 10, telephoned women and child welfare deputy director K Radha and explained her plight. A team of officials landed at their residence the next day and brought her to Mysuru. She is now under the care of the government. The sheer grit to pursue her education and lead an independent life prompted her to rebel. The girl, from a village in Hunsur taluk, constantly put off going to her in-laws' house in Periyapatna taluk. In May 2015, she was married against her mother's wish at a temple in the hometown of the bridegroom, in the pre-dawn hours. She was then 14 and had completed Class 9. Her parents kept her at home when they realized she was adamant about not going to her groom's house. She completed her schooling and secured a second class (356 marks) battling all odds.  Hunsur Child Protection officer Rangamani told TOI the girl been constantly harassed by her parents and the groom's family. They tried everything possible to convince her to stay with her in-laws, but she stood her ground. Her parents didn't allow her to study at night and would switch off the lights. They also forced her to go out with the groom to the movies. However, nothing worked. At the government school, she felt humiliated as her friends and teachers were aware of her marriage, and was asked to remove her 'mangalsutra' before going to school. When her father, a priest at a local temple, decided to send her to Periyapatna on Friday, following pressure from the boy's parents, she mustered the courage to call a welfare officer. She had a paper clipping with the phone numbers of women and child welfare officers. A neighbour helped her call the officer as she was confined to her house. The officer said her parents were daily-wage labourers and had married their daughter because the boy's family was affluent.
Shivamogga: Pre-monsoon showers that are lashing the district since two days have brought relief to the people who experienced an unprecedented hot summer, besides making them hopeful of a good monsoon.  Shivamogga, Bhadravathi and Sagar taluks have received heavy rains for the past two days, while other taluks recorded medium rain fall. Farmers of the district are preparing themselves to take up sowing activities hoping that the rains would continue. According to the Farmers'Forum, the pre monsoon showers are conducive to take up sowing in dry lands. Areca and Banana plantations which were drying up due to the shortage of water will also be benefited by these rains.The district has witnessed drinking water problem with borewells going dry and water table depleting further due to the failure of monsoon last year.
Nashik: Earlier this year, the Anti-corruption bureau (ACB) was asked by the state government to make a WhatsApp number public on which people could report cases of corruption or bribery, but this facility is yet to set up.Currently the ACB is only focussing on the complaints received on the helpline number or via social media. A senior official said that the number has not been started due to technical issues. "The office is in the process of starting the number but would require some more time to get it up and running," he added. The official said that complaints are being received through the official helpline number, the mobile application and on social media that were started last year. "We have been receiving a steady flow of complainants through the other mediums, a rise in awareness among people has also lead to more people coming forward. The number of complainants using mobile application have increased over the past one year," he added. The official also added the existing media are also being publiced to the masses through programmes and ACB officials are actively interacting with complainants and addressing their grievances.
 Nagpur: A 35-year-old woman was molested by a teacher at a private hospital in the city on Wednesday.  The victim has filed a case of molestation with the Dhantoli police station. Cops said both, the accused and the victim, are natives of Gadchiroli.  Police said the woman had come to city along with her husband, for treating their 9-year-old son. Her son's hand had burned in an accident.  Police said Kailas Gajane, a teacher, too had come to the hospital with students for check-up. The woman was with her son in the hospital room.  It's learnt that the woman's husband and Gajane enjoyed liquor at a nearby bar where an argument ensued. Later, Gajane thrashed the husband and drove him out of the hospital room. Gajane bolted the door from inside and allegedly molested the woman in front of her son.  In another case, a man identified as Ravi (27) molested a 24-year-old woman at a marriage reception at Amar Nagar in MIDC on Tuesday. The woman approached MIDC police station and lodged a complaint.  Ravi, who is unemployed, was harassing the woman for quite sometime. She is pursuing a nursing course and Ravi used to follow her on the road. She had shared her plight with her family.  On Tuesday, she had gone to attend a relative's marriage near Zilla Parishad School in MIDC when Ravi managed to molest her. Following this, the woman and her family members lodged a complaint of molestation.
Udupi: Embracing the eco-friendly initiative, Udupi railway station is now using solar energy. Solar panels under solar roof top scheme have been installed at the station and presently generates 7-kW with 28 panels.  A total of four panels are used to produce 1-kW power. The total cost of project is Rs 7.1 lakh. The entire station power requirement is about 49-kW (kilowatt). At present, Udupi railway station consumes electricity worth Rs 85,000 per month.  After installing solar system, 28 units of power is generated per day, which has reduced the monthly bill to Rs 78, 000, a resultant saving of Rs 7,000. "To fulfill power need for the entire station, solar roof top scheme is not enough, as the station does not have enough roof space. We have to look for provisions to get combination of schemes from government including installing panels in slopes to make Udupi railway station a complete solar station," said Babu Kedle, assistant electrical engineer, KRCL. Now, after using the power produced at the station, the remaining power is being procured from the Mescom though bi-directional autometre. Through this mechanism, power automatically transfers from solar to Mescom grid. The solar system has 25 years warranty and minimum 5-years maintenance guarantee. Electrical works including power conditioners, invertors, charge controllers, distribution boards, switch gear, storage batteries and over all workmanship of the power plants systems is maintained once a month," he added."Earlier, there were complaints from passengers about dully illuminated station at night. After the installation of solar roof top system, we have installed more lights for passengers safety at night. Konkan railways is trying all possible means to be eco-friendly and consumer friendly. Soon, Udupi station will have Diesel Electric Multiple Unit (DEMU), which will aim at cutting down fuel consumption and rain water harvesting technique and bio-toilets," said Sudha Krishnamoorthy, manager, PRO. We have already installed elevator at the station to help senior citizens, children to carry huge luggage on the station easily, she added.
 Meerut: A shop at Gol market in Meerut's Saket area was ransacked and looted of Rs 2.70 lakh allegedly by members of the Saket committee early on Thursday early morning at 5am. The members objected to alleged encroachment by the owner without any prior written notice.  The Saket committee members claimed that shop-owner Raj Kumar Thakur, who was planning to open a franchise of Blue Berry Icecream had encroached a certain area near his shop for the same. As the encroached land belonged to the committee due to which they only removed the tin shade of the shop. However, the committee members denied having ransacked Thakur's shop.  Instead they filed a police complaint against Thakur for having allegedly beating them up. They were referring to an argument between Thakur and R S Tomar, secretary, Meerut Sehkari Awas Samiti, Saket. However, shopkeepers said it nver happened.  Giving his version, Thakur said, "I spent nearly Rs 5 lakh on renovation of the shop and had also kept Rs 2.70 lakh - to pay the labourers - in a cupboard. But today (Thursday) morning, I was told by the guard in the area that my shop was being ransacked by Saket committee members. When I reached the spot, I saw the committee members but they fled on seeing me. Not only was my shop ransacked, Rs2.70 lakh kept in the premises was looted by them."  The shop, authorities say, had encroached upon some area outside its legal area and it blocked the passage to a public toilet nearby. But the shop was ransacked without any prior written notice served on Thakur.  "We had told Thakur verbally to remove the encroachment. He earlier used to sell tea and samosas and now, suddenly renovated the shop into an icecream parlour without taking permission. When he did not give in to our demands, we removed the tin shade. We did not ransack the shop. He must have sone it to gain sympathy," saidTomar.  While a police complaint was lodged at Civil Lines police station by Saket committee authorities against Thakur for allegedly having encroached on the area and for allegedly beating up committee members when asked to clear that area.  "I have not beaten up anybody and scared of police action against me and my age, I have dropped the idea of filing an FIR against them and will try to sort out the matte outside the police station," said Thakur.  SK Rana, station officer, Civil Lines police station, said, "We still have to file and FIR in the matter though we have received a police complaint."  Meanwhile, the shopkeepers of Gol Market remained angry over Thakur's decision of not filing an FIR. "I am planning to resign from my designation. Thakur's step will merely increase the courage of committee authorities to ransack or demolish any other shop in the market whenever they please," said Prem Somkar.
Nashik: City schools have the maximum number of vacant seats, as many as 188 of them, across the district under the 25% reservation of the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009. Unless these seats are filled, the education department cannot move on with round II of the admission process.As many as 1,761 children have been given admission in schools in the district as per the scheme. The total number of vacant seats now stands at 207, of which, 188 seats are from Nashik city alone.The deadline for giving admissions was last extended from May 15 to May 20. But the schools were permitted to continue with the process till the number of vacant seats was reduced to zero. Admissions are being given under the draw of lots. The education department has extended the deadline four times in order to accommodate maximum students under RTE. In the entire district, 5,585 forms were filled for 5,900 seats."In the first lot, 1,761 admissions have been confirmed in the district, 207 are remaining and 394 have not approached. Out of the 207 seats remaining, 188 are from Nashik city alone. We wrote to the administrative officer of the Nashik Municipal Corporation's (NMC) education department. He was to conduct meeting of all the headmistresses and ask them to give the admissions. Unless all the seats are filled, we cannot conduct the second round. The process has been delayed due to the city schools," said extension officer of the zilla parishad's education department Dhananjay Koli.An officer of the NMC's education department said that the administrative officer had conducted the meeting after issuing notices to schools. "The schools were asked to give admission and many schools are complying," said the education officer.He said that after the first round is completed, the second round will begin and it is only after that the number of vacancies can be gauged."Our attempt is to admit maximum students in schools," he added.
 Meerut: Thirteen days after Subhash Chandra, a city resident, died and his body was donated for organ harvesting in accordance with his written pledge, as many as 1,300 people pledged in writing that they would donate blood at regular intervals during their lifetime and other organs like their cornea (eye) after their death for those in need.  The pledge-taking ceremony conducted by Dera Sacha Sauda was headed by Meerut commissioner Alok Sinha, divisional forest officer Aditi Sharma and chief medical officer Dr Ramesh Chandra. Interestingly, the Dera has its name in the record books for making maximum number of people pledge to donated their cornea and other organs.  Dr Sumit Upadhyay, an ENT surgeon and a member of Dera Sacha Sauda who takes care of medical activities for the group, said, "More than 1,300 persons pledged to donate their blood during their lifetime and cornea and body parts after their death at a meeting that took place on Thursday morning. While 1,307 people pledged to donate their blood at regular intervals, 1,121 people promised to donate cornea, 765 agreed to donate their body after death and 250 people agreed to donate their kidneys and liver.  "After our death, our body is hardly of any use, then why not go on the path that Baba Gurmeet Ram Rahim teaches all of us. I have pledged to donate my body after death so that those who are still alive in need of any body organ can make good use of it," said Sunil Kumar, an advocate by profession.  Dr BK Gupta, an ayurvedic doctor who pledged to donate his cornea, said, "My family and I will be more than glad to be of use to someone even after death. I have pledged to donate my cornea like many others here."
Nashik: Three failed bids to lure investors to the IT park building at the Ambad industrial estate have prompted the MIDC regional office to seek guidance from its headquarters in Mumbai on how to utilise the facility lying idle for 12 years. The regional office of the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) has sent a letter to its headquarters, submitting a report on the facility and seeking guidelines on how to go about it. The NMC made three attempts of auction of IT Park building in past three years, but it did not receive response from the industries. The third attempt of auction was in April 2016. Speaking to TOI, an MIDC official said, "We had floated a bid on March 31 to auction the IT park building and had reduced the minimum bid rates. The last date for filing the bid was April 28. But we did not receive a single bid from the industries. This was our third attempt. Finally, we have sent a report on auction to our head office in Mumbai and have sought its guidelines. We will take decision as per the guidelines by our head office."Sanjiv Narang, president, Nashik Industries & Manufacturers' Association (Nima), said, "The IT park building is 15 years old and the rates quoted by the MIDC are still high. The MIDC needs to reduce the rates by 40% more and give the building to the industries who had applied in the past, instead of going for auction." The IT Park building had been built by the state government in select cities of Maharashtra, including Nashik, in 2002 at Rs 2.23 crore. The building is spread across an acre. The three-storey IT park building has 15 galas. The MIDC made its first auction attempt in April 2013 and the minimum bid rate was Rs 24,530 per sq m. According to industries, the rates quoted by MIDC were not affordable. Accordingly, the MIDC reduced the minimum bidding rate to Rs 22,300 per sq metre in its second auction attempt in August 2014. The MIDC also tried to rent out the galas on a monthly basis last year, but in vain. Finally, the MIDC decided to go for auction and floated a bid for the third time on March 31. It reduced the minimum bidding rates by 15% to Rs 19,120 per sq metre and valued the cost of the entire building at Rs 5.86 crore. But still it did not receive response. In 2007, the MIDC had received an offer for the IT Park building from a Mumbai-based construction company. But the company had cancelled the deal on the ground of lack of potential.
Nashik: The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) is conducting a survey in rainfed taluka of Dindori and the dry region of Sinnar as part of Unnat Maharashtra Abhiyan, a state initiative to enable demand-driven research. The Abhiyan will give citizens access to institutions of learning for topical research.The students of IIT-B have been stationed in Sinnar and Dindori for carrying out survey of irrigation facilties in the region, sources of water and the demand for water."Citizens, MLAs, MPs, and members of zilla parishad and even gram panchayat can make a demand for planning of sanitation, drinking water supply system, watershed analysis, jalyukt shivar, taluka tanker plan assessment etc. The plan will be executed by educational institutions. Sinnar MLA Rajabhau Vaze sought our expertise in testing the irrigation potential of his taluka," said Milind Sohoni, head CTARA, IIT Bombay.The study is a part of the process to identify water resources for the region, rainfall, contours, rivers and their status in various seasons, groundwater levels along with cropping pattern and other related factors. "Students will assess the situation with reference to available quantity of water and its cropping pattern. It will focus on ways and means to achieve optimal usage of water to meet the targets of Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana - which goes with the tag line of 'har khet ko pani'. In places like Sinnar, this is going to be an arduous task and the success here will be a benchmark because the region hardly receives any rainfall," a senior district collectorate officer said.The overall objective is to make technological alternatives available to people to boost socio-economic development for the ones who are at the bottom of the pyramid. MLA Vaze said that he had sought the attention of the state government to carry out a study in Sinnar which was perennially drought-hit and where there was a need to take major steps for resolving issues that trouble the farmers.Senior officials from IIT-B said that the regions of Sinnar and Dindori show extremely opposite climatic conditions. They were selected for understanding and preparing the irrigation plan for the district. "While Sinnar is drought-hit, Dindori is a rain-rich region. The characteristics are quite opposite. But the studies here will help us design the irrigation plan for the district which, of course, would be carried out only after rigorous survey of all the places in the district," Sohoni said.
Nashik: Police have charged eight members of a notorious gang under the Maharashtra Control on Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) on Thursday.According to the police, members of the 'tipper' gang were wanted in case of harassment when a fruit seller complained that the gang had demanded a ransom of five lakh from him. The members had reportedly threatened a fruit vendor of dire consequences if he did not pay "We clamped the MCOCA against cases registered against all the members individually, as well as in the group, as there were significant in number to qualify for both charges. Besides, this will also help police to file a better chargesheet to ensure that these people are locked behind bars," a police officer said. The eight members were arrested between June 1 and June 4 during the raids and combing operations. Sonya Bapu Pawar, a resident of Cidco, Wasim Shaikh and Shahi Syed of the Bhadrakali area were arrested in the combing operation carried out by the police as they rounded them up from their residences after receiving a tip-offs, the police sources said. Six other members of the gang were arrested earlier this week after a case of extortion was registered against them. Police managed to nab the wanted criminals through combing operations that have started in the backdrop of rising crimes in Nashik.Five members were arrested on June 1 and another three were nabbed, on the intervening night of June 2 and 3. The gang was formed in 2009 and slowly increased its strength to 13 members and got involved in committing serious crimes.
Nashik: The jewellery shops in saraf bazaar were crowded with customers in the evening on Gurupushyamrut as city jewellers cashed in on the occasion of Gurupushyamrut on Thursday recording sales of almost Rs50 crore in a single day. Gurupushyamrut is considered an auspicious day for buying gold. Jewellers had also made record sales in one day on the occasion of Akshay Tritiya on May 9, when they recorded sales close to Rs100 crore, however, this amount was considered low compared to what jewellers normally make on that day.Rajendra Odhekar the president of the Nashik jewellers association, said, "We had very good business on the auspicious occasion of Gurupushyamurt. People prefer to buy gold coins and bars more than gold jewellery on this day but there was also a demand for jewellery apart from gold coins or bars. There was no rush at noon, but people rushed to buy gold in the evening particularly after 4.00 p.m."Odhekar said, "We are still against the 1% excise duty on gold and studded silver jewellery levied by the central government which came into effect from April 1. A high level delegation from the association is still in talks with the central government. We hope government will give at least relax the exercise amount levied. Gold has become costlier by 1% due to excise duty." The jewellers associations have urged the government to levy 1% extra surcharge in Value Added Tax (VAT), instead of the 1% hike in excise duty. The gold price was recorded at Rs 29,100 per 10 grams, while silver price was recorded at Rs 41,000 per kg on Thursday. \There are around 2,500 small and large jewellery shops across the district, including 800 shops in the jurisdiction of Nashik municipal corporation. There are close to 250 jewellery shops alone in Saraf bazaar areas of the city.
 Nagpur: While load-shedding in the city is a thing of past, power breakdowns during rains, especially in June are not. Every year MSEDCL and SNDL take maintenance shutdowns to gear up the network for rains and every time this exercise comes to a nought.  The large number of breakdowns in SNDL area and the long time taken to restore them raises a big question mark on the working of the franchisee. Sources in MSEDCL said the firm was short staffed and hence it took a lot of time to attend the faults. The fact-finding committee set up energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule too had reached this conclusion. SNDL had increased its staffers by 100 but the situation on the ground has not changed much.  A MSEDCL officer said there were three main reasons of breakdowns during rains. "Branches of trees land on our cables due to strong wind. In many cases, trees get uprooted and fall on our cables. The second is that power cables snap due to strong winds. The third reason is that power cable insulators develop fissures due to various reasons and get punctured during rains," he said adding that sometimes electric poles got bent or uprooted.  According to the officer, underground cables are not affected by these factors but they had a flip side. "It takes a long time to detect fault in such cables. The only solution is that our cities should have big ducts for cables so that repair gang personnel could attend to breakdown as in case of overhead cables. We had asked Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) to create such ducts under Integrated Road Development Project (IRDP) but to no avail," he further said.  In many cases proposals for laying underground cables are gathering dust. Some residents of Ramkrishna Nagar said MSEDCL's Ajni office had long back submitted a plan to make all MSEDCL wiring underground and it was even approved. But the government failed to sanction funds for the plan. Despite repeated requests, both MSEDCL and NMC officials cite one or other excuses for not making entire network underground.
Mysuru: Transport authorities in Mysuru have warned school authorities that they would seize school buses if they are not maintained well, complying with the rules set up Supreme Court in this regard. Officials said that legal action will be initiated against school heads if their vehicles are not taken care of properly. This follows a recent incident of a school bus catching fire, wherein nearly 45 children from class I to 10 and staff jumped to safety after being alerted by the driver.Deputy commissioner for transport, C B Kuberappa, who is also senior regional transport officer (Mysuru West), said that transport officials will conduct surprise and special inspection of vehicles to check their condition. If vehicles are found not complying with the rules and regulations laid down by the apex court, school heads will face action.The department officials have issued instruction to all schools about the directions of the Supreme Court, he said, adding: "The safety of schoolchildren is important, and it is the responsibility of school/ college management to keep vehicles in condition. We will take action if buses are found unfit."Mysuru East regional transport officer Prabhuswamy told TOI that inspectors have been directed to ensure that school buses comply with all the guidelines of the apex court, "failing which they will face action".
Mandya: More than 70 sheep were mowed down when they came under the Shatabdi Express near Shivapura railway station on Thursday afternoon. The 200-odd flock were crossing the track when they came under the train. The sheep belonged to shepherds Krishnamurti, Nagaraju and Basavaraju.
Nashik: The residents of Shilapur village, led by former sarpanch of the village Madhavrao Kahandal, have decided to oppose the transfer of 100 acre land to Rs 150 crore-Central Power Research Institute (CPRI) laboratory being planned, the foundation of which was laid in 2013.Villagers claim that political pressure was being created to show that the laboratory was coming up, but they would make it happe until CPRI promised 10%reservation to them ."We are not going to say yes just because local member of parliament has promised something. It is our demand that locals get jobs and that 'grazing field' - the state government property, should be handed over to the local Gayran Bachav Samiti so that we guard that space," Kahandal said.The development has come at a time when there are reports stating that the land acquisition is completed. Kahandal said, "There is no land acquisition given that the grazing fields are the state government's property. The consent of the village is required to transfer the land to any government entity - CPRI. We are aware of the process and have decided that the villagers will not give their consent till they are assured jobs." Regarding the grazing fields Kahandal said the Gayran Bachav Samiti would be of the Gram Panchayat and would take measures for soil and water conservation, ensuring there were no encroachments in the future. Nashik MP Hemant Godse said that the opponents were limited to very small quarters, as many villagers were siding him now. "There was huge opposition to the project earlier, but it is largely limited to political quarters now. We are in touch with CPRI to demand jobs for locals, training for students etc, but if that does not happen, we will ask them to spend for the development of the village via Corporate Social Responsibility-fund. Besides, I will take the village under Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana, if required," Godse said. The project has received an approval from the state government, but the land transfer process, which is underway will definitely see opposition from the villagers.The residents of Shilapur village, led by former sarpanch of the village Madhavrao Kahandal, have decided to oppose tooth and nail the transfer of 100-acre land to Rs 150-crore-Central Power Research Institute laboratory being planned at Nashik, the foundation for which was laid back in 2013. The villagers claim that the political pressure was being created to show the laboratory was coming up soon, but it was not possible until the institute promised 10 percent reservation of the locals at all cost. "We are not going to say 'yes' only because local member of parliament has promised something to somebody. It is our demand that locals should get job and that 'grazing field' - the state government property should be handed over to local 'gayran bachav samiti' so that we can be the guardians of the open space," Madhavrao Kahandal, former sarpanch of the village Shilapur, in Nashik taluka said. The development comes close on the heels of the reports saying the land acquisition has been completed and the laboratory will be raised soon. "There is no question of land acquisition given that the grazing fields are the property of the state government. But the village consent is required for transfer of the land from 'grazing fields' to any government entity - in this case CPRI. We are aware of the processes and hence we have decided that the village will not given any kind of consent till it gets in writing the assurance from the CPRI about giving jobs to the locals," Kahandal stressed. To the fact that the grazing fields cannot be handed over to any non-government body for any reason as mentioned in the state government resolution, Kahandal said that the Gayran Bachav Samiti would be of the Gram panchayat and it would take all measures for soil and water conservation on the same, thus ensuring there were no encroachments in the future. MP of Nashik Hemant Godse however said that the opponents were limited to very small quarters as he had already removed the sting of the opposition with many villagers now siding him. "There was huge opposition to the project earlier, but now it has mellowed down. The opposition is largely limited to political quarters. However, we are in touch with CPRI demanding jobs for locals, training for the local students etc, but if that does not happen, we will ask the CPRI to consider spending on the village the Corporate Social Responsibility-fund for the development of the village. Besides, even I will take the village under Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana if required," Godse said. The project to be raised on 100-acre land has received approval from the state government, but the land transfer process is underway and the actual handover of the land will definitely see the opposition from the villagers - though very small numbers.
Mysuru: Mandi police registered a complaint against city-based tours and travels agency owner and his staff for allegedly thrashing tourists from Andhra Pradesh who complained about bad service on Thursday.  Satish Kumar, an interior designer from Rajahmundry along with his five friends, came to Bengaluru on a trip. With the help of a travel agent, the youths, who are in their mid-twenties, toured Bengaluru and surrounding places on Tuesday. On Wednesday, they went to Mysuru and visited various tourist places in Mysuru and in its vicinity. On Thursday, they planned to visit Ooty in Tamil Nadu and the travel agent had booked a vehicle with ARK Travels on Ashoka Road near St Philomena's Church. Police said the travel agency owner Akil had reserved seats for youths in a Tempo Traveler. On Thursday morning, when the youths boarded the vehicle, others in the vehicle objected to the youths travelling with them. Akil then arranged another Tempo Traveler but the youths face the same problem there to. Akil told youths to hire a Tavera or Tata Sumo which cost them an extra Rs 3,500 as he could not send them in a Tempo Traveler. But the youths refused to pay the extra charge or take back the amount and demanded he arrange a vehicle. This had led to a verbal clash between Akil and the youths. Travel agency employees intervened and thrashed the youths. Satish, who received several blows, was admitted to a private hospital. Mandi police registered a case.
 NAVI MUMBAI: The civic engineering department has identified the changes to be made in Vashi's Vishnudas Bhave Auditorium to be made in a survey.  The auditorium is going in for a major overhaul and the renovation process may start by the end of this financial year, if the general body approves the changes.  "We intend to develop this auditorium to suit modern day needs. The proposed changes will be presented to the general body for sanction of funds," said an official.  Some of the major proposed changes include constructing ramps and providing barrier-free access in the building. The civic body has allotted Rs 6.75 crore for renovating the building.  "The building should be disabled-friendly and also easily accessible to the senior citizens. So there are plans to construct ramps as well as have elevators fitted in the complex," said PRO Mahendra Konde.  There are plans to have a bookstore that will stock up renowned literary works. "We want to utilize the available space to the maximum. There are open spaces, such as a bookstore, which can be made available to the residents every day. It will promote socio-culture activities," said a civic official.  Civic officials, involved with the auditorium's daily activities, said that the revamp was essential for increasing mass appeal. "If the auditorium is upgraded, it will attract more patrons. The current amenities are outdated, the air-conditioning system is as old as the building and we were having problems with the system," said the official.  The auditorium was opened to public in 1997 and is spread over 51,000 sq ft area. It has seating capacity of 1,005 and one of its unique aspects is its revolving stage.
 A young couple attempted suicide in a lodge at Matheran on Wednesday. They consumed organo-phosphorous which is used in Baygon spray. The 17-year-old girl from Pen is out of danger but the 22-year-old boy has been admitted to a hospital in Karjat. The couple's parents were possibly against the relationship. "The boy is on ventilator but internal bleeding may threaten his life," B J Hospital in-charge Dr Mohd Hussain said.
 Nagpur:  Six years after the then DF government decided to introduce the 'tree credits' scheme to farmers to increase dwindling forest cover, the BJP government on Thursday constituted a five-member committee to implement the concept.   To fight climate change and increase forest cover to 33% by encouraging plantations on private land, the concept of tree credits was under consideration by the previous Congress-NCP government and a cabinet note was also prepared.  However, there was confusion on how to go about it and the issue had been gathering dust. On December 29, 2015, former PCCF   Tasneem Ahmed gave a presentation to forest minister   Sudhir Mungantiwar following which a committee has been set up to make a proposal to implement the concept. The five-member panel will be headed by   PCCF Sarjan Bhagat while FDCM MD, CCF (education & research)   Nitin Kakodkar and Ahmed are members. CCF of Amravati, Sanjeev Gaur, will be member-secretary. The committee has been asked to submit its report by September 3. In 2011, former minister Nitin Raut had announced in Nagpur that the policy will be implemented by the social forestry department. However, it never happened. According to APCCF VD Chafekar, tree credits is a novel concept similar to shares/securities. It will be awarded to tree growers for protecting trees till maturity age. Tree growers will include all individuals and institutions holding non-forest land where trees are protected. The tree credit will make conditions favourable for people to proactively grow and protect trees, by giving them appropriate, periodic financial returns. "Polluting industries shall by law, be made liable to buy the tree credits and pay to the growers," Chafekar said. Explaining the working strategy, Chafekar said tree credits will be awarded in the form of certificates to growers, who may be individuals, institutions, industries etc from time to time by the government or the forest department till the tree attains silvicultural maturity.  "The certificates would be like shares, whose market price would fluctuate according to demand and supply at a given point of time. The role of the government would be establishing linkage between growers and agencies wanting to surrender tree credits," said Chafekar.   He said carbon sequestration will be another issue tackled by growing trees. On its effective monitoring, the government is also considering appointing a     Tree Credit Council  , which will decide modalities. The concept will be in line with the National Forest Policy (NFP) 1988, which specifies that green cover in the state should be 33%
Nashik: Twenty-nine of the 34 residents, who had raised objections to the removal of unauthorised religious structures in Bhadrakali for causing hindrance to the traffic as well as movement of pedestrians on the footpath, attended Thursday's hearing organised by the civic body. The hearing took place in the afternoon in the office of deputy municipal commissioner (encroachment and tax) R M Bahiram. Bhadrakali is especially sensitive to the issue of unauthorised shrines as the area fall sin the Old City and has a large number of structures obstructing the flow of traffic in the narrow lanes. In all, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has received 63 objections and suggestions from citizens with regards to the removal of unauthorised shrines across the city. The hearing is being held on June 9 and 10. Today, (Thursday) the hearing is being held for all the unauthorised religious structures in the limits of Bhadrakali police station, which is a highly sensitive and vexed issue for the NMC. "In all, 29 residents who had objected to the removal of unauthorised shriens attended the hearing; five of them failed to turn up. We had asked them to bring evidences or documents authenticating the existence of structures before 2009 or heritage structures," said Bahiram.The Supreme Court, in response to the petition for leave to Civil Appeal 8519/2006, ordered on May 5, 2011 that all unauthorised religious constructions should be regularised/relocated/removed. A contempt petition was filed in the high court by the Society for Fast Justice and others versus Maharashtra state and others. The high court on October 21, 2015, chalked out a plan for unauthorised shrines. According to the HC plan, all unauthorised shrines after September 29, 2009 will have to be removed and the possibilities for regularising the structures before this date should be looked into. If they cannot be regularised, possibilities for relocating them should be weighed."We had uploaded the result of our survey on the NMC and police websites and had asked people to submit their observations to the assistant director of town planning department at Rajiv Gandhi Bhavan, Sharanpur Road, or at the six divisional offices along with proofs of their claims," said an NMC official. An NMC official said the unauthorised religious structures would have to be removed within eight months. Citizens were permitted to object to three things on the list - religious structures with all permissions that may have included in the list by mistake, religious structures after September 29, 2009 that have been included in the list before September 29, 2009 or vice versa, and thirdly, unauthorised shrines that have been missed in the survey.The next hearing will take place on Friday. for all the unauthorised shrines coming under the jurisdiction of the rest of the police stations.Timeline on removal of structuresFebruary 2015 - report on illegal religious structures to be submitted based on fresh survey conducted by the committee formed as per the state government's resolution in 2011. January - joint survey by NMC and police. There are 169 unauthorised religious structures in the city as per the survey conducted after year 2009. Before 2009, the structures were 384. As per fresh survey 1002 unauthorised structures found February - survey extended to find more unauthorised structures in the city February-end - NMC identifies 284 unauthorised religious structures across the city constructed on the encroached land. Some of these structures have encroached upon the road causing hindrance to the traffic. Out of the total 1348 religious structures surveyed, there are 1064 religious structures before 2009 and 284 after 2009. People requested to register their suggestions and objections March - Objections and suggestions registered June - hearing of unauthorised religious structures
Nashik: At least 630 errant autorickshaw drivers were penalised until Thursday evening after the city police launched a major drive to discipline them.Police officials said that they have been receiving a number of complaints against auto drivers arguing with passengers, overcharging them and failed to park their vehicles systematically. "Our aim was to launch an offensive across the city against errant auto drivers and check those violating norms, including carrying passengers on front seat and not possessing the required documents," an officer said. The officer said the drive would continue for another couple of days, just as the schools open for the new academic year.
 Yavatmal: At least 13 persons, including forest officials, sustained injuries in stone pelting resorted to by farmers who had encroached on government land at village   Khairi in Pandharkawda division on Wednesday. Three of the injured were shifted to   Yavatmal GMC where their condition is improving.  According to police sources, over 24 farmers, who had encroached on the forest land, were issued evacuation notices by sub-divisional officer. However, the encroachers did not pay any heed. When the forest officials reached the village on Wednesday to clear encroachments, the farmers and their families tried to resist the move. When they found that the officials were going ahead with the drive, they started pelting stones at them. In the ensuing scuffle, forest officials and farmers sustained injuries. The injured included RFO BZ Pawar, flying squad officer VV Varey and farmers Bapurao Madavi, Maroti Atram, Nagobai Madavi. Lalitabai Atram, Sonubai Tekam and Shantabai Madavi, besides others. On a report from forest official, the police reached the village and brought the situation under control.   Bhaurao Tekam got himself arrested in protest against the action. A couple of days ago, the anti-encroachment squad of Yavatmal had razed houses in   Bangar Nagar area. In protest, two youths went to the district collector's office and climbed atop the tower situated on the premises. The district collector has now fenced the tower with barbed wires and tin sheets so that no such incident could occur in future. Earlier, a councillor had also climbed the tower to draw attention of the authorities towards drinking water problem faced by residents of ward no. 6 which he represented.
Nashik: The winning streak of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Nashik division, has ended with the unit being placed in third place in Maharashtra until May. In January, the Nashik ACB laid 58 successful traps. But by February, the number had dropped to 32. The numbers have gradually come down further to around 28 traps in the last three months, forcing the Nashik unit to jeopardise its first position which it held until the first week of March.Till May, the bureau has recorded a drop in 10 cases compared to the same period last year and now follows Pune (1st) and Aurangabad (2nd) in the ratings chart. An official at the ACB here said, "Pune ACB laid around 75 successful traps followed by Aurangabad with 72. Nashik ranked third this year till date," adding that number of traps have also reduced compared to last year for the corresponding time. "Last year, there were 68 traps led by the department; this year about 58 traps have been laid till May," he further said. In Nashik, the maximum number of cases were related to revenue department and the police, with 10 cases in each department. "The Nashik ACB climbed up the second in the latter part of last year with increase in the number of trapped cases. This year, however, the cases have dropped again," he added. The official said it was important to increase the number of cases wherein corrupt officials were trapped. Expressing challenges, he added that many government officials have become aware of ACB's procedures and do not take bribes out of fear. "In majority of the cases, the officials accept bribe at first instance or when initial demand is made. The ACB usually traps officials when the suspect comes to collect the remaining sum on a second occasion. But now many do not come to pick up second instalments fearing action," he added.The official also added that many times complainants fear that their official work will be hampered if action is taken against a corrupt official and do not approach the bureau. "The bureau also needs to create more awareness and a sense of confidence among the residents and the aggrieved so that they can come forward without any apprehension," he told TOI. He said that the bureau will try and reach out to more people through posters and leaflets to be displayed at weekly markets, bus stands, railway stations and other public places. Among the trapped officials this year, a maximum of 16 have been held in Ahmednagar, followed by 15 traps in Jalgaon and 14 in Nashik. Dhule and Nandurbar stand at eight and five traps, respectively, in the division.The official appealed the people to call on 1064, 0253-2575628/30 or 9923185566 to register complaints.
Greater Noida: Children of farmers in Greater Noida whose land has been acquired by the government will now have 20% of seats reserved in private schools, who have been allotted the farmers' land for constructing schools.This was announced by the Greater Noida Industrial development Authority (GNIDA) CEO, Deepak Agarwal, after the GNIDA held its 105th board meeting on Thursday. According to the policy, a 25% rebate in fees is also on the cards for the farmers' kids.On the recommendation of the Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate, N P Singh, two children will also be nominated from the economically weaker section of society to receive a 50% reprieve in fees.According to officials, if any school administration does not follow the directions, strict action will be taken. "We will also cancel the lease deeds of those schools which do not follow the norms," Agarwal said."We will not adopt a lenient view any more and school administrations will not be allowed to do as they please. In the past too, this norm was included in the lease deed in some form but was not always being adhered to by the private schools," he said."From now onwards, this clause will be implemented strictly at the time of allotment of land for setting up schools," he said.
Noida: A group of Bisada residents moved court on Thursday for an FIR against Mohammad Akhlaq's family for alleged cow slaughter.The residents submitted their application to the chief judicial magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar with a request to direct police to file a case. The matter has been scheduled for hearing on June 13. Manoj Tewatia, public prosecutor in the murder case of Akhlaq, said he had not seen the application and hence, couldn't comment.Sanjay Rana, a local BJP functionary and father of Vishal Rana, a prime accused in the lynching, said the complaint was filed by some local residents, not families of the suspects. "The family members of youths named in the case are busy deciding their legal options. Villagers headed by Surajpal Singh filed a complaint based on the forensic report which says the flesh was of cow or its progeny," Sanjay Rana said.His son and 17 others are accused of battering Akhlaq to death on September 28 last year, on the suspicion that he had eaten beef. But families of the accused have been demanding an FIR against Akhlaq's family following the disclosure of a forensic report of the meat sample that police said was seized from near Akhlaq's house. The report confirmed the meat was beef. Police have said the nature of meat is irrelevant to the case. On June 6, families of the accused held a panchayat meeting in Bisada and given an ultimatum to police to file an FIR within 20 days.Rajeev Tyagi, counsel of Surajpal Singh, said his client had first approached police in October 2015 for an FIR on cow slaughter. "Police did not register the complaint. When the forensic report became public last week, Singh again visited Jarcha police station. The complaint was again not registered. On June 5, my client met the Gautam Budh Nagar SSP. He again failed to get the complaint registered and decided to move court," Tyagi said.Police, however, continue to maintain the meat sample was taken from near a transformer outside Akhlaq's house and it doesn't prove his family slaughtered the cow. Akhlaq's brother Jaan Mohammad said, "The law is taking its course. Some people and outfits have got involved in the issue and are trying to divert attention from the main issue. We have faith in the judicial system."
Nashik: The Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd (BSNL) has recorded a whopping three-fold rise in their internet business, solely in the Nashik district during the past three years.The telecommunication company's internet business through broadband and data card increased by three times from Rs 12 crore in the financial year 2013-14 to Rs 38 crore in 2015-16. Moreover, the company has registered 58.33 per cent rise in internet business in the financial year 2015-16, in comparison to Rs 24 crore in 2014-15. In the last three years, contribution of the internet business in the company's total revenue has increased from 10 per cent to 28 per cent.Sureshbabu Prajapati, General Manager of BSNL, Nashik, said, "We have received very good response to our internet services through broadband and data card services in the district. Our internet business has tripled in the past three years. BSNL's total revenue through prepaid and postpaid mobile, landline and broadband in the district was recorded Rs 127.5 crore in 2013-14. Of which, the contribution of internet business was only 10 per cent which is Rs 12 crore. Now our total revenue has reached Rs 138.48 crore. Out of which, internet business contributes 28 per cent."Prajapati said that they have taken out more measures to increase their booming business. "We have also reduced internet leased line by over 30 per cent to make internet service more affordable to consumers and increase our internet business. We have already made our mobile service roaming free across the nation. It is only BSNL which has made roaming free and other companies could not launch this facility. The mobile rates by private mobile companies are under control only because of BSNL's presence," Prajapati added.The BSNL has 102 mobile towers in the district. Presently, the company has total 4.25 lakh prepaid and postpaid mobile customers across Nashik. The company had added 75,000 new mobile connections in 2015-16. The numbers of prepaid and postpaid mobile customers have also increased by 43 per cent in the last two years, from 2.93 lakh mobile connections in 2013-14 to 4.25 lakh connections in 2015-16. In a major development, the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd (BSNL) has recorded three-fold rise in its internet business during past three years in Nashik district.The BSNL's internet business through broadband and data card increased by three-time from Rs 12 crore in financial year 2013-14 to Rs 38 crore in FY 2015-16. Moreover, the company registered 58.33 per cent rise in internet business in 2015-16, against Rs 24 crore in previous year 2014-15. The contribution internet business in its total revenue has increased from 10 per cent to 28 per cent in past three years.Sureshbabu Prajapati, General Manager of BSNL, Nashik, said, "We have received very good response from people to our internet services through broadband and data card services in the district. Our internet business has tripled in past three years. BSNL's total revenue through pre-paid and post-paid mobile, landline and broadband in the district was recorded Rs 127.5 crore in 2013-14. Of which, the contribution of internet business was only 10 per cent i.e Rs 12 crore." He added, "Now our total revenue has reached Rs 138.48 crore. Of which, internet business contributes 28 per cent."Prajapati said, "Moreover, we have also reduced internet leased line by over 30 per cent to make internet service more affordable to consumers and increase our internet business. We have already made our mobile service roaming free across the nation. It is only BSNL which has made mobile calling roaming free and other companies could not launch this facility. The mobile rates by private mobile companies are under control only because of the presence of the BSNL."The BSNL has 102 mobile towers in the district. Presently, the BSNL has total 4.25 lakh pre-paid and post-paid mobile customers across the district. The company added 75,000 new mobile connections in 2015-16. The numbers of pre-paid and post-paid mobile customers have also increased by 43 per cent in past two years from 2.93lakh mobile connections in 2013-14 to 4.25 lakh connections in 2015-16.
 NAVI MUMBAI: Around 15 dogs have reportedly gone missing in Kamothe's sector 18 and 19 since the past 15 days and activists and dog lovers suspect that they have been poisoned or killed.  Animal lover, and local resident, Raja Iyer, who has been feeding these dogs regularly, noticed their absence. "One day I saw a dog carcass. I took pictures and went to the police station," he said. But the cops told him that a post-mortem cannot be conducted after such a long time but he was still keen to file a complaint.  Another resident and activist, Pooja Teli, said a local told her that two weeks ago a van visited the area around midnight, after which the dogs went missing. "If someone can produce proof, a complaint can be filed," she said.
Noida: The twin authorities of Noida and Greater Noida on Thursday approved a fresh exit policy for allottees defaulting on their payment towards property owned by them. The proposal will now be forwarded to the UP government for final approval. An initial proposal, forwarded to the state government in March this year, was returned by the government. "Once approved, the allottees will have to forfeit 15% of the amount deposited with the Authority. For the balance 85% amount, the applicant would be allotted proportionate land out of the originally allotted plot. Thus, the revised land area so allotted would be at the rate at which the original land was allotted," said Deepak Agarwal, CEO, Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority. The exit policy came was formulated way back in 2009 following the economic slowdown for owners of industrial, institutional, group housing and commercial land. But the government order issued at the time expired in March 2011. It's only now that a fresh policy is being drawn up. tnnlters have no choice but to pay their outstanding dues or face action from the respective authorities including cancellation of their lease deeds and even confiscation of their allotted land. tnnOnce approved, the allottees will be able to surrender their land to the authorities in lieu of clearing outstanding dues owed to the development authorities. The move will provide relief to thousands of home owners who are unable to get possession or register their properties. According to officials, the proposal, termed as 'relief package,' by Noida's financial advisors Ernst & Young, will also provide an exit way for allottees who have for some reason or other not been able to take up construction on the land."If the applicant is also interested in extra land, besides the revised area, allotment of land would be made at the current reserve/allotment rate. Any stamp duty, lease rent, processing fee, penal interest, transfer charges, re-instatement charges or any other statutory charges or penalty which may have been imposed on the applicant and which has not been paid by him till the date of the application, will not be deducted out of the 85% balance amount to be refunded," Currently, Noida Authority has to recover an outstanding amount of nearly Rs 15,000 crore from over 500 defaulters including group housing, residential, institutional, industrial and commercial categories of land use. Greater Noida Authority, on the other hand, has to recover Rs 7,000 crore.
Chandrapur: A road accident claimed the lives of a sloth bear and its cub on   Chandrapur-Ballarpur Road , around 5km from here on Thursday morning. The unidentified speeding vehicle crushed the full grown mother sloth bear to death instantly while the baby bear died of fatal injuries after it was dragged over 15 meters along the road by the vehicle. Forest officers are looking for any cub that might have been with the mother bear and escaped the accident unhurt. The accident took place near   Bhikund Nullah on Chandrapur-Ballarpur Road and was brought to the notice of forest officers early in the morning. RFO, Ballarpur forest range,   Dilip Wadettiwar rushed to the scene with his team and removed the dead bodies from the road. Forest officials claimed that the bodies of the bears were scattered along the road in a pool of blood. The mother bear might have been crossing the road with the cubs on its back when the speeding vehicle rammed into them. Foresters searched the jungle on either side of the road to look for other bear cubs, if any. Officers claimed that bears usually have two or more cubs, and hence the forest near the accident place was searched to find whether any cub had escaped unhurt. However, forest staffer failed to locate any surviving baby bear in the area. Wildlife veterinary officer, TATR, Dr   Ravikant Khobragade carried out post mortem on the carcass of both mother and its male cub at   Karwa forest nursery later in the afternoon. He said both dead bodies were severely crushed under a heavy vehicle like a truck. The skull, spinal cord and other vital bones of both mother and baby bear were fractured, resulting in instant death for both animals. Wildlife activists have expressed dismay over the ghastly death of the bears. They demanded immediate measures to limit speeds, building chain-link fencing in key forest patches, and underpasses on the highway. Forest department also came in for heavy criticism on social media for its inaction after the pictures of crushed bears on the road went viral.
 Navi Mumbai: The municipal corporation has decided to change the way payment deadlines are set in property tax bills. The change, based on a suggestion by an activist, is likely to be implemented by the next month.  "I had recently written to NMMC chief Tukaram Mundhe about how our property tax bills have the last payment date printed as 'Pay After'. This can be a bit confusing and most consumers end up making late payments. I suggested the bills should mention in bold 'Pay Before', or risk being penalised. I am happy that the NMMC has taken note of my suggestion," said activist Bharat Samant.  Deputy municipal commissioner (property tax/LBT), Umesh Wagh, said, "We have taken Samant's suggestion. This should encourage the citizens to make early payments and thereby increase the NMMC's revenue."  NMMC has recovered Rs 516 crore as property tax this year. The amount is likely to be more next year as the system will get further streamlined, an official said.
Nagpur:  CBSE has come down hard on private schools by threatening them with disaffiliation if they indulge in   profiteering by hiking   fees unnecessarily. In a sternly worded letter to schools last week, the board has cites a 'serious view' taken by the   Ministry of Human Resources Development ( HRD ) over the "tendency among some of the institutions to gain profit by imparting education and subsequently raising fees under various heads".  The letter signed by director of affiliation says that "schools are expected to provide good and healthy environment for quality education without the burden on child's parents as schools should run as community service and not as a business". It added that according to reports from stakeholders a large number of     CBSE  schools are not adhering to the provisions concerning tuition fees laid down in the affiliation by-laws of the central board which are in fact mandatory.  Schools have also been warned that there maybe an audit done if the central board receives report of violations. "In case of any report on violation of the relevant rules or by-laws of the board, the board as per Rule 13.10 will conduct an audit of the accounts of the school which may even lead to disaffiliation of the school," the letter mentioned. CBSE however placates schools saying it understands their need for a steady revenue stream. "There is a need for the school management to generate sufficient financial resources to guarantee the continued existence of the institution to meet the running expenses of the school to maintain it at a reasonable standard of efficiency, to pay salaries to teachers and other categories of staff regularly at least at par with the corresponding categories in the state government schools and to undertake improvement/development of school facilities etc but the school management should not make profit out of it,"  The letter cited by-laws which already have these things mentioned. CBSE has clarified that fee charges should be commensurate with facilities provided by the institution.   "Fee should normally be charged under the heads prescribed by the department of education of state/UT for schools of different categories," the letter said. It added that no capitation fee or voluntary donations for gaining admission in the school or for any other purpose should be charged in the name of the school. "In case of such malpractices, the Board may take drastic action leading to disaffiliation of the school," CBSE warned.
Nashik: Shiv Sena leader and corporator Sudhakar Badgujar and his wife Harsha who were seven sent notices by municipal commissioner Praveen Gedam for unauthorised construction and disqualification, approached the civil court on Thursday. Sudhakar Badgujar was also sent notices for financial transactions between him and the Badgujar and Badgujar Company of which he is known to be the director.In all seven notices were sent to the Badgujar couple last month. The hearing was to be held by Gedam in May-end but Badgujar sought extension for the date of hearing. Meanwhile, Badgujar sought legal help and approached the civil court as per section 12 of Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporations Act which allows the corporator to challenge the notice."Badgujar met the municipal commissioner on Thursday with his lawyers Shrishailya Deshmukh and Nagnath Gorwadkar to inform about the case. The municipal commissioner still has the power under section 10 of the Act," said a civic official.Meanwhile, the municipal commissioner set June 18 as the date of hearing for the couple.
 Navi Mumbai: The municipal corporation has decided to change the way payment deadlines are set in property tax bills. The change, based on a suggestion by an activist, is likely to be implemented by the next month.  "I had recently written to NMMC chief Tukaram Mundhe about how our property tax bills have the last payment date printed as 'Pay After'. This can be a bit confusing and most consumers end up making late payments. I suggested the bills should mention in bold 'Pay Before', or risk being penalised. I am happy that the NMMC has taken note of my suggestion," said activist Bharat Samant.  Deputy municipal commissioner (property tax/LBT), Umesh Wagh, said, "We have taken Samant's suggestion. This should encourage the citizens to make early payments and thereby increase the NMMC's revenue."  NMMC has recovered Rs 516 crore as property tax this year. The amount is likely to be more next year as the system will get further streamlined, an official said.
Greater Noida: Toll tax is set to go up by up to 14% on the Yamuna expressway. The toll hike was approved by the Yamuna Expressway Industrial development Authority (YEIDA) on Thursday in keeping with the agreement with the concessionaire and will come into effect after YEIDA formally directs Jaypee Infratech to implement it. According to the revised rates provided by the operator, the toll fee reflects a hike ranging from 10.69% to 13.63%.
Noida: A joint board meeting of the three development authorities in Gautam Budh Nagar-Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna expressway -has decided to increase the land allotment rates in Noida by 14.19% across all categories except commercial. The hike has been implemented with immediate effect.In Noida, the hike in allotment rates means that residential properties have become dearer by at least Rs 11,550 per square metre in 'A' category sectors like 14,14A, 15, 15A, 17A and 44 and by Rs 4,200 per sq m in 'E' category sectors like 102,115 and158. The group housing flats in Noida have become costlier by nearly Rs 15,751 per sq m in the 'A' category areas and by 5,951 per sq m in 'E' category areas. In the institutional category for IT/ITES properties in Noida sectors 1, 16A and 24, buyers will have to shell out Rs 50,700 per sq m now. For plots falling in the Phase I, II and III industrial areas of Noida, the allotment rates for plots up to 4,000 meters have now been fixed at Rs 30,614, Rs 10,893 and Rs 11,293 per sq m, respectively.According to officials, the commercial land allotment rates in Noida have not been changed as the demand has slowed down, and higher prices would further discourage investment. Noida has been trying to sell its commercial plots through consecutive schemes in the past one year but has had no takers.In Noida, land rates were last hiked in February 2015. At that time, land allotment rates were increased by a steep 18.4% across all categories of land including group housing, residential and institutional properties. However, that time also, rates for commercial purposes were not increased.The officials further said that increase in rates is a routine affair carried out every year by all the three development authorities of Gautam Budh Nagar - Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna expressway. While Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) had raised land rates ranging from 4% to 49% depending on category of land from April 1, 2015, the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) had announced a hike ranging from 5% to 20% which was implemented from January 1, 2016. However, GNIDA and YEIDA have not increased their land allotment rates this time.
Dharwad: A large number of voters, who had to travel a long distance to exercise their franchise, are of the opinion that online voting should be introduced in the legislative council elections in the teachers' and graduates' constituencies. Mahabaleshwar, a teacher and voter in the West Teachers' constituency, said, "Since the number of voters is small and the voters are scattered, it becomes difficult for most teachers to come out and cast their votes. This time, the government did not declare holiday. Instead, the heads of the institutions were directed to allow time for the teachers to cast their vote during school hours. The teachers had to conduct classes and visit far-off polling station to cast the votes and then come back to school all in an hour between 10am and 4pm. This deterred several teachers from going to polling stations, resulting in a poor voters' turnout.""Online voting system will save time, energy and resources and will increase the polling percentage," said Anand Patil another teacher.
CHANDIGARH: After maintaining silence for several days over the raging controversy on 'Udta Punjab' — a movie on the drug menace in the state — Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief and deputy chief minister Sukhbir Badal on Thursday joined the issue, saying he was 'shocked' with words 'kanjar' and 'banjar' in the movie.Sukhbir referred to the movie as "one of the countless such films produced for commercial reasons in the country. Neither chief minister Parkash Singh Badal nor I nor anyone else at the political or administrative level in the government or the party has seen the film so far. So, how can we take a call on whether or not the film will affect the peaceful atmosphere in the state by hurting the sentiments of Punjabis through a vulgar and humiliating presentation of present-day Punjab and Punjabis?" asked Sukhbir, in a statement issued by his office.The row over cuts in the movie has brought Bollywood bigwigs together against the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) chief Pahlaj Nihalani, demanding his sack. The CBFC had asked for 89 cuts in the movie for its certification. 'Udta Punjab' co-producer Anurag Kashyap stated that Nihalani's allegation that he had accepted AAP funding to show Punjab in a bad light was absolutely wrong. Both AAP and Congress have accused SAD of playing a key role in seeking deletion of references to words like 'Punjab', names of seven districts in the state, 'elections', and 'MLA'.Sukhbir also asserted that "it was absurd" to suggest the government's intervention "at this stage" to make cuts in the movie. "Whether to allow its release or not is an issue between the producers and the CBFC. The government has nothing to do with it. It is for the censors to see whether the film meets or violates the fundamental principles of balance between freedom of expression on the one hand, and deliberately or inadvertently blackening the face of a state.While seeking 89 cuts in the film, the CBFC had demanded a disclaimer in the movie, with praises for Punjab government and Punjab police, and removal of drug injection scenes. Also, it asked the producers to clearly state in the credits that it was only a work of fiction. The CBFC had also told the film-makers to delete the words 'election', 'MP', 'party', 'party worker', 'MLA', 'Punjab', and 'parliament'."We are in favour of anything that lends social, psychological, or thematic support to our all-out war against drugs. For all I know, the film in question may even be an attempt to correct the distorted picture of Punjab as a drug haven, painted by some opportunistic non-Punjabis, political parties, and leaders using abusive language against the bravest and most competent, patriotic people of Punjab. If so, we will welcome the movie and even support it, and other similar films aimed at an image correction of Punjabis," added Sukhbir.
 Sikhs in the city commemorated the 410th martyrdom year of Sikhism's fifth guru, Guru Arjan Devji, on Wednesday. The guru was martyred at the age of 43. Thousands of Sikhs and Punjabis thronged the city streets and Gurudwaras to mark the day. Women and children were seen distributing food and cold drinks (chabeel) to passersby from their makeshift tents. Commuters travelling in public vehicles were also offered cold drinks.
Nashik: Authorities at the Mahatma Phule Agriculture University (MPKV) on Thursday ensured the students looking to pursue BSc in agriculture and horticulture and B Tech in agriculture engineering that the issue of accreditation was not going to affect the day-to-day running of the varsity or interfere with the academic session.But the students were far from convinced. This year, the Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR) has refused to give accreditation to all the four universities agriculture universities in Maharashtra, including MPKV Rahuri, near Pune due to vacant faculty positions and poor quality of research work being done in the universities. All colleges conducting agriculture-related courses are affiliated to MPKV.After Engineering and Medical, Nashik-based students prefer to join B. Sc. (Agriculture), B Sc (horticulture) and B Tech (Agriculture Engineering) in this agriculture-dominated region. Colleges conducting agriculture-related courses are affiliated to the Mahatma Phule Krushi Vidyapeeth (MPKV) Rahuri, near Pune. This year, students aspiring to join Agriculture courses are in confusion after Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR) refused to give accreditation to four universities in Maharashtra citing different reasons. However, authorities at Mahatma Phule Agriculture University (MPKV) confirmed that the accreditation issue is not going to affect the day-to-day running of the university nor would it interfere with the academic session this year."ICAR's National Agriculture Education Accreditation Board refused to give accreditation to all four agriculture universities this year. While vice-chancellors of the universities are taking all efforts to make ICAR re-consider the issue, I must make it clear that it is not going to affect the future of students aspiring to join the agriculture courses," said V M Pansare, registrar of MPKV. "The Maharashtra Council of Agricultural Education & Research (MCAER), Pune is the authority monitoring the entire centralised admission process of all four agriculture universities in Maharashtra. The council has already declared the admission schedule and admission process has started," said Pansare. According to Vilas Bhale, associate dean at the Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth (DrPDKV), the issue of ICAR accreditation will be resolved soon. "Even if the universities fail to get the ICAR accreditation, they will lose up to 15% seats filled through ICAR and up to Rs 7 crore grant given by ICAR. In short, this will not affect the in-house students of the state directly," he said. The agriculture universities get about 20% students from the ICAR. These students help improving the quality of research and education in these universities. Their presence even benefits the in-house students. However, students are still confused and they want universities to make matters clear officially. "We came to know that the ICAR held vacant faculty positions across agriculture colleges in the state and poor quality of research work being done in the universities responsible for not granting the accreditation. Both the issues are serious from students' point of view. Universities should come out with an official stand over it," said Nitin Todkar, student.
Kanpur: A complaint was filed in the court of the chief metropolitan magistrate's court against railway minister Suresh Prabhu minister on Thursday, alleging that he had violated the provisions of Section 146/154/156 Rail Act 1989. In a complaint filed under section 190 (1) CrPC, the petitioner claimed that on June 7, 2016 he had read a news published in a Hindi newspaper in which it was stated that the railway minister had got down from running train at Meerut railway station in a bid to evade BJP workers who had assembled there to welcome him.The act of railway minister was illegal and against the provisions of Section 146/154/156 Rail Act. If a cabinet minister would break the law in such manner, then it would encourage others to break the law and in that way anarchy would prevail in the society. The petitioner urged the court to summon the accused and punish him accordingly. The court had fixed June 27 as the date for hearing.
Jaipur: In order to decongest the area and malls in and around Gaurav Tower (a shopping mall) in Malviya Nagar in the city, the Jaipur traffic police have decided to bar free parking on the road. After a meeting with the owners of shopping mall, the traffic police have directed them to accommodate the vehicles coming at the spot in their parking space which is not being utilized properly. The traffic police will also create some diversions and new traffic plans for the area from June 13 onwards. Senior police officers said that arrangement for proper parking and utilization of various spots was necessary for the near Gaurav Tower as the place is also known for maximum number of vehicle lifting."We have found that 65 four-wheelers can be parked in the parking space of Anandam Fort, 450 four-wheelers at GT Central, 150 at Gaurav Tower and almost 1000 two-wheelers in all these shopping complexes," said Haider Ali Jaidi, deputy commissioner of police (Traffic)."Likewise, we will also utilize the triple-storey parking of Crystal Court, which allows parking of 1,100 four-wheelers and 1,725 two-wheelers. It was witnessed that people used to park their vehicles on roads without utilizing these parking spots. Thus, next time even roads connecting various malls near Malviya Nagar will have paid parking," he added.
 Kanpur: The body of a 72-year-old man was found in a pool of blood on the roof of his house in Gwaltoli on Thursday. The police said Lalta Prasad Katheria, who had retired as a clerk from Ursula Horseman Hospital, used to live alone, while his sons stay separately. He was battered to death. The officers said they were questioning his family members and neighbours.  Katheria's wife died a few years ago and his three sons, who are married, live separately. One son Umesh resides with his family in Barra. Other sons Amit and Arvind live with their families in Meerut. Umesh said that Amit had called his father a couple of days ago to inquire about his health. the officer.  SHO Gwaltoli Arvind Kumar Singh said they were probing the case from all angles. "In the past, we have come across instances, where the murderer took away articles to make it appear to be a robbery case. We will probe the case from every angle," he said. An FIR has been lodged on a complaint lodged by Umesh, who suspected that his father has been murdered. A dog squad and a team of forensic experts were pressed into service.
 Nagpur: A city court on Thursday awarded five years imprisonment to a man under Information Technology Act, 2000, first ever conviction under the act in city. The accused allegedly uploaded sexually explicit video of a dental student on   Facebook , through her own account, about four years back.  Accused   Ajay Shalikram Gajbhiye (40), a resident of   Kamptee and working as a medical representative, allegedly created a fake ID on Facebook and uploaded the video of a dental student from a city-based dental college in an apparent act of revenge as she refused his advances. He was held guilty under Sections 66A, 66C, 66D and 67A of the IT Act. District judge GP Shirsat also found him guilty under Section 328 of Indian Penal Code for administering stupefying drug with intent to cause hurt. He was sentenced to five years imprisonment for this offence. He was further convicted of Section 354 of IPC and was sentenced to six month imprisonment. The court ruled all three sentences would run concurrently that means the accused would remain behind bars for maximum of five years. He was also slapped with Rs17,000 fine. The accused came in contact with the girl during her college days in 2010 and soon they fell in love. Later, differences cropped up between them and girl stopped seeing him. On December 2011, Gajbhiye forcibly took the girl to a resort and gave her softdrinks laced with sedatives. After she fell unconscious, the accused took her video in sexually explicit positions, according to the prosecution. He then allegedly tried to exploit her and blackmailed her with that video, after she refused his advances. She categorically refused all his demands and continued to avoid him. After failing to achieve his aim, he somehow got her Facebook password and uploaded her video clip through it. He also sent that clip to her friends and siblings. It prompted her to lodge a complaint with MIDC police on January 26, 2012, which was later transferred to cybercrime cell. During the course of investigation, the cyber crime cell found the explicit video was uploaded through Gajbhiye's personal computer and it was traced to his IP address. The judge slapped the accused a fine of Rs3,000 each for all sections of IT Act and Rs5,000 for Section 328 of IPC.
Noida, June 9() Residential land rates in Noida is set to go up. New Okhla Industrial Development Authority(NOIDA) Board at its meeting held today has given approval for a 14.19 percent hike in land allotment rates. All land rates are rupee per square meter. Commercial land rates were, however, not hiked. Residential land rates in category E newly-developed sectors have been hiked from Rs.25,000 to Rs.29,600. For category D residential sectors, the increase is from Rs. 29,170 to Rs.34,540. C category residential sectors rates has been hiked to Rs. 41,320 from Rs.34,900 and in B category the hike is from Rs. 47,920 to Rs.56,740. Land rate in A category highly-developed residential sectors has been enhanced from Rs.68,750 to Rs.81,400. For group housing, the minimum reserved price which was between Rs.35,420 and Rs.93,750 depending on the category of sectors the rate has been raised to Rs.41,940 to Rs. 111,000 Institutional land rates for R&D, film studio, IT, ITES in sector 1,16A and sector 24 has been hiked from Rs.37,500 to Rs.44,400. In Phase 2 and phase 3 areas, the increase is from Rs. 13,550 to Rs.16,040. For   Bio Tech Park , the hike is from Rs.10,240 to Rs. 12,120. For Telecom Centre and post office and super bazaar, milk,vegetable and fruit centres, land allotment rates has been raised from Rs.7,300 to Rs.8,640. Land rates of farm houses on agriculture land has been enhanced from Rs.5,525 to Rs.6,540. Industrial sector rates in phase 1 has been pushed up from Rs.22,640 to Rs.26,810. In Phase 2, the hike is from Rs. 8,060 to Rs.9,540. In phase 3, the increase is from Rs.8,350 to Rs.9,890 Authority has also regrouped sectors in categories. Category A sectors include sector 14, 14A, 15A, 17, 30, 35, 36,39,44,50,51 and 52. B category sectors are sector 15,19,20,21,23,25 to 29, 31,33,34,37,40,41,46,47,48,49,53,55,56,61,62,82,92,93,93A,93B, 96,97,98,99,100,105,108 and 122. Category C sectors include sector 11,12,22,42,43,45, 70 to 78, 104, 107, 110, 119, 120, 121, 128, 129, 130, 131, 133, 134, 135,137,143,143B,144,151 and 168. Category D sectors are sector 63A,86,112,113,116,117 and 118. Category E sectors are sector 102,115,158,162 and other remaining sectors. CORRPAL
 Ara: In a major breakthrough, the Bhojpur police arrested one of the main accused of Brahmeshwar Singh alias Brahmeshwar Mukhiya murder case Nandgopal Pandey alias Fauji from Shri Chandra Nagar under Town police station of Jamui district on Wednesday.  The former chief of the outlawed Ranvir Sena, a private militia of landlords, Brahmeshwar Mukhiya, was killed on June 1, 2012 in Ara. His murder had triggered both violence and political tumult in the state.  Addressing a press conference here on Thursday, Bhojpur SP Kshatranil Singh said acting on a tip-off, a nine-member police team was constituted under district intelligence unit (DIU) in charge Kumar Saurabh. "The police team collected secret information about the accused who was working as a contractor in Jamui under a pseudo name.  Police kept a watch on him through electronic surveillance and finally succeeded in arresting him," said the SP.  The accused, Nandgopal, son of late Ramji Pandey of Jogiya village under Bikramganj police station of Rohtas district, was already carrying a reward of Rs 50,000 on his head.  He is also being interrogated by the police for his involvement in 18 other cases of bank robbery, murder and kidnapping lodged with different police stations.  "Nandgopal will be later handed over to Rohtas police, where he is wanted in a case of demanding ransom," said the SP.  Police sources said the CBI will also quiz Nandgopal as it is probing the Brahmeshwar Mukhiya murder case on the recommendations of the state government.
Patna, Jun 9 () The   BJP today refused to accept   Bihar government's claim that 500 odd stolen files of the state animal husbandry directorate were not connected with the fodder scam and alleged that Chief Minister   Nitish Kumar was trying to save   RJD president   Lalu Prasad and others accused in the over Rs 1000 crore scam. "More than 500 stolen files are related to fodder scam," senior BJP leader   Sushil Kumar Modi claimed in a statement and demanded   CBI inquiry into the issue. "Majority of the stolen files are related to cases under fodder scam in which hearing is pending in courts," Modi, one of the petitioners in the   Patna High Court in the scam in Animal Husbandry department during RJD rule, alleged. Besides, there are files linked to petitioners that included him (Sushil Modi),   Rajeev Ranjan Singh Lallan and   Prem Chandra Mishra , he alleged. "Lalu Prasad is a convict in a fodder scam case and is currently on bail. More than half-a-dozen other cases related to the fodder scam are pending against him," he said and asked if theft of the files was part of a conspiracy to save the accused. "In a bid to save its face, the state government is arguing that files related to fodder scam have been handed over to CBI. The question is if these were dead files, why were they stolen?" he asked. Animal Husbandry Department Minister   Awdesh Kumar Singh yesterday denied missing files were of fodder scam saying all such files related to that case have been handed over to the CBI which is investigating the scam. The minister said the missing files were related to retirement, pension and other departmental matters of employees from 1997 to 2011. Modi said the theft had been taken place on April 26 but the information regarding the theft was given four days later (April 30) and this proves it is a conspiracy. "Sixteen days after information about theft of files, an FIR was registered, and after 22 days of it an inspector did the formality of questioning about theft," he claimed. "The fact is that Nitish Kumar wishes to save Lalu Prasad," he alleged. "On one hand, Lalu Prasad ignored party workers and nominated noted lawyer Ram Jethmalani, who is arguing his case in fodder scam, to Rajya Sabha. On the other, a conspiracy was hatched to steal files related to fodder scam," Modi said. SNS NN ZMN
 Patna: Despite better infrastructure and facilities in Patna schools and Intermediate colleges, countryside students have been dominating the merit list of different exams conducted by the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) in the last few years. A cursory glance at Bihar board results suggest that students hailing from schools and colleges located in rural areas, in fact, comprised a majority in the BSEB's rank holders' list.  Sample these: Of the 63 students who made it to the Intermediate Arts merit list in the last three years (2014-16), only one is from Patna. During the same period, just six students of the state capital made it to the Intermediate Science toppers' list which comprised of 80 students in all. Intermediate Commerce figures were a tad better with 11 of the 45 rank holders of the last three years being from Patna.  Even in 2013, only three Patna were among the 60 and odd students who made it to the merit list of BSEB's Intermediate examinations (arts, science and commerce). The corresponding figure for matriculation was at two among 14 students who ranked in top 10 the same year. Stats were similar in 2012 when only one of the 18 students, who ranked in top 10 of BSEB's matriculation examination, was from Patna.  On a number of occasions, more than one rank holder in the merit list are from the same college or from the same district. For example, in 2014, seven ICom toppers were from Gaya College, Gaya while five toppers each in IA and ISc streams were from Madhubani and Samastipur districts, respectively.  A former BSEB secretary attributed the dominance of countryside students in the merit list to well-off Patna students taking admission in CBSE or ICSE affiliated schools. "CBSE schools are a priority of majority of the parents and students in Patna. In contrast, students in the districts don't really have the CBSE or ICSE options and enrol in schools affiliated with the state examination board," he said.  But the conduct of exams in the districts came under scanner in 2015 when photographs of mass copying in matriculation examinations at a centre in Mahnar (Vaishali) went viral in the media.  With more skeletons coming out from the BSEB closets after the topper scam came to light this year, educationists agree that it has been easier to manipulate results in the districts as parents can connive with the school or college management either during the conduct of exam or evaluation of papers.  However, in defence of the genuine toppers, a BSEB official said, "Merit can be anywhere. Moreover, districts don't offer too many distractions to students, unlike the state capital. So, rural students can concentrate better on their studies."
 Patna: Huge amount of money was spent by the candidates contesting the panchayat elections held recently in Bihar. The elections were held in 10 phases from April 24 to May 30.  According to a study conducted by Delhi-based Institute of Social Sciences (ISS) on the basis of interaction with the local representatives, independent observers and media reports, average Rs20 lakh was spent in each panchayat this time against Rs10 lakh in previous panchayat polls. Local MLAs, irrespective of their party affiliations, took keen interest in the entire election process.  Project head Sachindra Narayan, an emeritus professor at ISS, said the positive side of the elections is that more educated people have been elected this time.  "A JNU scholar, Amrit Anand, has been elected mukhiya of Pasin panchayat in Kaimur district. Altogether 51 master's degree holder and 105 graduates were also elected," Narayan told TOI over phone from Delhi. The report strongly favours panchayat polls on party basis.  It was observed that more women than men voted in the elections.  Women also resorted to bogus voting by frequently changing their dresses, hairstyle and make-up to confuse the poll personnel. Most of the polling booths had inadequate police personnel. It was also found that home guards/policemen acted as polling agents at some places, the report said.  It was also found that in several panchayats, 'mukhiya patis' (husbands of mukhiya candidates) were mercilessly beaten up.  Though there is a complete ban on all types of liquor in Bihar, the study found flow of country-made liquor and cash besides distribution of saris and dhotis by the candidates to influence the voters.  Several candidates left their jobs and education to contest elections. The report also said several known families of Maoists were also in the fray for the post of mukhiya.
 Patna: The lack of time and the increase in demand for a healthy diet among Patnaites have given a boost to the tiffin business in the city over the years.  After a day's hectic work, a tired person, living away from home, often craves for homemade food with less oil and spices. "Tiffin service, which is affordable, comes to the rescue of outsiders who live in Patna or those who are unable to cook due to the lack of time. Who wouldn't spend Rs 3,000 per month on tiffin services instead of Rs 6,000 a month in a restaurant or hotel?" asks a source and adds eating at cheap roadside food joints daily is harmful as it is likely to land one in trouble.  With an increase in demand, city tiffin service providers are laughing all the way to the bank. Mamta, the owner of a tiffin service on Boring Road, says, "When I started this business in 2009, I had 10 customers, but today I have at least 50 customers spread across Patna. Initially I cooked and delivered the food alone. Now, there are three employees who help me."  Mamta charges Rs 2,500 per month from her customers. While she serves non-veg items on Wednesdays and Sundays, she provides vegetarian food on the remaining five days. its veg food and she takes Rs 2,500 a month.  Tiffin service provider A K Tiwari considers himself luckier than most of his competitors. The Kankarbagh resident began the service in April this year with just 10 customers, but today he feeds at least 200 persons every day. "The cost of a monthly veg lunch box is Rs 2,200 and that of a non-vegetarian platter is Rs 2750. At present, I have seven workers to help me and all my customers are satisfied with the service I provide," Tiwari tells TOI.  Aditya Kumar, a student living in a Boring Road hostel, has been using the tiffin service for one year and is completely satisfied with it. "The quality of food is good and healthy. I don't miss homemade food much now," he says.  Tiffin user Rajeev Nayan, who is an executive in a private company, says the service is affordable. "I get my food on time without the hassles of cooking - both in the afternoon and at night," he adds.
 Patna: How safe are the vegetables, fruits and dairy products that we consume everyday? "The bigger sizes of vegetables and fruits in the market may look attractive, but people should think twice before purchasing them. They are the results of oxytocin hormones injected in fruits and vegetables," said experts.  Incidentally, despite a ban imposed by the Union health ministry on sale of controversial hormonal drug Oxytocin through pharmacies to curb the misuse of the injection by dairy and agri farmers, farmers in the state, in a desperate bid to make their green produces like bottle gourds, bitter gourds and cucumbers look fresher, bigger and greener are injecting the veggies with this hormone.  The state government, in a communique issued here on Wednesday, has made a fervent appeal to farmers not to use oxytocin as its sustained use may cause hormonal imbalance even in human beings and harm their reproductive system.  Dairy farmers too inject oxytocin to cows and buffaloes to extract more milk. But the most alarming misuse of the hormone is being done by the farmers in the state.  "This hormone is being used by many farmers to plump up vegetables like bottle gourds, bitter gourds, pumpkins and cucumbers. They inject their veggies in early stages with oxytocin so that their produces can be bigger and greener in comparison to normal natural sizes to attract the consumers," said deputy director, horticulture, Nitesh Kumar Rai.  "Oxytocin is basically a reproductive hormone found in all mammals. It acts primarily as a neurotransmitter in the brain and figures largely in female reproduction, sexual and emotional behaviour. In local parlance, it has got many names starting from 'cocin' and 'paani' to 'dawai' and is available at almost all drug stores even in the countryside. Researches have proved that the indiscriminate use of oxytocin injections by farmers have been causing health hazards," said Rai.  "Most of the fertilizers are expensive. So we use hormone injections which are available at cheaper rates. It helps the veggies to swell up quickly," said Santosh Prasad, a Digha farmer.  Medical experts too pointed out that sustained use of the drug can cause hormonal imbalance in humans and harm the reproductive system of animals, reducing their life span. "Oxytocin is naturally-occurring and is also known as the 'hormone of love' or 'cuddle drug'. It is released during labour to facilitate delivery and breastfeeding and other maternal instincts. The disturbing part is that these hormones may cause irreparable damage to our health, if taken through vegetables over a period of time," said a leading physician Dr NK Singh.  "Fruits and vegetables that have been grown with the help of chemicals or hormones will not show its adverse effect on human health immediately after consumption. But it can have an effect later," said a nutritionist Dr Preeti Anmol.  Unfortunately, there is no way to visually distinguish between a normal vegetable and one that's been pumped with oxytocin.  Besides oxytocin, there's other documented chemicals used to dress up produce in India, such as copper sulfate to artificially enhance the colours of fruits and vegetables and calcium carbide for quick ripening. Both are known to have negative human health impacts.
 Anand Kishor, who took over as the Bihar State Examination Board (BSEB) chairman on Thursday, says he will leave no stone unturned to restore the glory of the board. "I worship education and those misusing it will not be tolerated," the IAS officer, who is a BSEB matriculate, tells TOI's Sheezan Nezami. Excerpts:  You have taken over as BSEB chairman in difficult times. What is going on in your mind?  I consider joining BSEB at this critical juncture as an opportunity. No stone would be left unturned to make systemic improvement in BSEB and stop recurrance of such episodes.  List your top three priorities as BSEB chief.  Though I intend to work in entirety to bring about positive changes in BSEB, my top three priorities, as of now, are ensuring complete automation of BSEB functioning, bringing transparency and accountability in the functioning of the board and timely review of board's work. We will try to provide all facilities to students online so that they don't have to run to BESB office for minor work.  After media spilled the beans, the government swung into action in topper case. But such issues have been cropping up in the state for ages. What is the long-term solution?  I would not like to dig the grave right now because my focus is on future instead of past. However, if we receive any specific complaint with proof, necessary action would be taken.  Will BSEB accept that even previous toppers were undeserving?  As of now, there is no evidence to suggest that. No such generalised statement can be made in absence of corroborative proof. However, if we get any specific complaint with proof, action would be taken.  There is a racket going on in the name of unaided colleges. Money changes hands in grant of affiliation to such colleges. How would you tackle this dhanda (business)?  There are well laid norms for the affiliation. If necessary, we would go for changes in those norms to make the entire process transparent. Two grey areas - field inspection by BSEB officers and delay in granting affiliation - need immediate attention.  What about misuse of performance-based incentives being given to colleges?  This is the policy decision of the government and I would not comment on it. Performance-based incentives encourage merit. There is nothing wrong with it.  Such a big scandal (topper scam) cannot take place with the involvement of just one person, even if he was the chairman of the board and had lot of power. The way special investigation team is arresting clerks and peons, it means there are black sheep in workforce.  Police investigation is already on and based on their findings and our administrative level review, we would punish the guilty. Dismissal or departmental action would also be initiated if necessary.  Bihar is known for its meritorious students. Post this scam, meritorious Biharis will be seen as suspects outside the state because of BSEB.  The BSEB has a glorious past. This particular case is an isolated one in which some people with vested interests cheated the system. The government has already initiated harsh action against them. I think this would remove the 'black spot', the term you used, from the board. Now onwards, students would be given marks according to their merit.
PATNA: The state government has spent Rs 952 crore on 'unaided' private schools and colleges since 2009-10, official sources said on Thursday. One such beneficiary is Vishun Roy College in Vaishali, now under the lens for allegedly committing forgeries to secure high scores for its students in the Class X and Intermediate examinations conducted by the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB). The sources said the state has about 1,200 private institutions that "impart" education up to Classes X and XII. The state government grants these institutions annual incentives based on the performances of their students. Until now, it has given away Rs 952,57,57,300 to such schools and colleges, the sources added. A school gets a grant of Rs 7,000 for every male student who passes in the first division in the Class X board examination at the rate of Rs 3,500 each for Classes IX and X. In case a girl student gets a first division, the grant goes up to Rs 7,400. Similarly, if a male student secures a second or third division in the Class X board examination, his institution gets a grant of Rs 6,000 and Rs 5,000 respectively (for Class IX and X). In case of girls, the grant amounts to Rs 6,400 and Rs 5,400 respectively. The amount goes up by Rs 1,000 for every slab in the Class XII board examination. Many are of the view that it's because of these grants, institutions compete with each other for good results. "These institutions don't have requisite infrastructure and faculy. They cannot improve teaching. That's why they use unfair means to have outstanding results," an education department official said. The May 2009 government notification has provisions for disbursement of such grants for Class X results from 2007-08 and Class XII results from 2006-08 onwards. In 2007-08 itself, the Vishun Roy College received Rs 50 lakh. The students of this college have a very high success rate, which came under the media glare last week when its IA "topper" Ruby Roy and ISc "topper" Saurabh Shreshtha fumbled while answering simple questions on their subjects on TV. This forced the board to call the toppers for a retest, following which the results of Saurabh and another ISc rank holder Rahul Kumar were cancelled. Ruby has been asked to appear for a re-examination on June 11. Ruby's college was founded by Rajdeo Roy in his father's name in the 1990s. Rajdeo's son, Bachcha, is the current principal-cum-director of the college. Bachcha's daughter, Shalinee Roy, scored 97.2% marks to top the Class X examination in 2014. An FIR filed by the government in what is now known as topper scam says Shalinee "scored 430 out of 500 in the Class XII (science) exam to top the state this year." The sources said the 'topper tag' helps students get direct admission in premier technical institutes like BITS-Pilani. Many blamed this and government grants for the spread of unfair practices in the education sector. The state has about 3,000 government institutions to impart teaching up to Class XII. An Intermediate college teacher rued, "The government policy seeks to help private institutions, but ignores how poorly the teachers and staff are paid." Most teachers look forward to correcting answersheets of candidates for the twin board examinations every year. "Examinations are like a festive season that gives us a chance to earn about Rs 50,000 every year," the Inter college teacher said. Examiners get Rs 14 for every answersheet of 100 marks and Rs 11 for every answersheet of 50 marks.
NAVI MUMBAI: Even as 10 days have passed since the new civic commissioner, Tukaram Mundhe ordered compulsory segregation of waste at source, the response has been far from satisfactory, for the order preceded what the civic body claimed to be after spreading public awareness, notices to housing societies and also advertisements in the media.The response can vary from say, around 40 % for wet garbage and 24 % for dry waste. NMMC said out of a total of 650 ton of waste generated every day, a study had said wet and dry component constituted of 200 ton and 150 ton respectively. At present the source segregation has yielded 200 ton of wet and 40 ton of dry waste.The civic body said it would step up the campaign. The wards described to be good'' regarding compliance are Belapur, Nerul, Vashi and Turbhe while Airoli, Dighe, Koperkhairne and Ghansoli required to be coaxed for better results.Civic sources said as confirmed by some residential societies that mixed garbage was not lifted for sometimes two days and at a stretch for four days to make residents realise the importance of source segregation and to put moral pressure.
 Aurangabad: One Awadhesh Singh Bhokta, a resident of village Chilmi under Madanpur police station area, was gunned down by suspected Maoists on late Wednesday night. The incident occurred close to canal in Dalelbigha village under the same police station.  According to police sources, Maoists caught Bhokta on Wednesday night from Panchrukhiya village, took him near the canal and killed him by opening fire on him by an AK-47.  The deceased's wife, Kranti Devi, said Prasadji and Nawalji, both top Maoists, used to sexually abuse her on gunpoint for the past few months, which her husband always resisted. "Maoists had threatened my husband with dire consequences," she said.  On getting information, SP Babu Ram visited the spot and took stock of the situation from the SHO of the police station concerned. He consoled Kranti Devi and assured her of payment of Rs 5 lakh and benefits under various government welfare schemes, including widow pension scheme.  The SP urged people to muster courage and provide information to police about the Maoists. "If you provide us information, then within a month Maoists would be uprooted," he said.  Explosives recovered: With the recovery of 25 cane bombs, one high capacity cylinder bomb (15 kg) and parts of rocket launcher, Aurangabad police claimed to have averted a major tragedy in the district on Thursday. The huge recovery was made from Bhura hills under Deo police station of the district.  According to police sources, a joint team of district armed police (DAP) and CRPF headed by SP Babu Ram had gone for a search operation in dense hilly area under Deo police station, when they came across the cane bombs and other explosives stored.  The SP said, during the search operation, 25 cane bombs, one cylinder bomb and key parts of rocket launcher were recovered from the same hill.  He said it cannot be denied that explosives were stocked targeting security personnel engaged in anti-Maoist operation in the district. Soon after the recovery, a massive search operation across the district has been launched and all companies of CRPF and Cobra have been put on maximum alert.  CRPF assistant commandant Prem Kumar said all the hilly areas will be searched so that explosives stocked by the Maoists could be recovered timely.
 Patna: There will be no more janata darbars at district or any other level in Bihar and all kinds of complaints will be heard through Bihar Public Grievance Redressal System (BPGRS) from June 13.  Since the launch of the mechanism under Bihar Public Grievance Redressal Act on June 5, altogether 3,302 complaints have been registered from June 6 to June 9 (noon) across the state. "BPGRS is now the only forum for people to register their complaints as janata darbars of administrative and police officials have been discontinued," said S Siddharth, principal secretary (industries) and in-charge of the BPGRS, on Thursday. However, there is no official information about the CM's janata darbar.  While he agreed that the number of complaints is not many, Siddharth said the state government was taking all steps to spread awareness among the general public about the new forum. "We have issued advertisements and are leaving no stone unturned to make people aware about this new service for them," he said and added, "It is heartening that a maximum of 358 complaints were registered through the online portal while 338 complaints were lodged at the state-level centralized centre at Soochna Bhawan."  With a view to utilizing technology for popularizing the BPGRS, the state government will also launch an Android application and install touchscreen kiosks at the complaint registration offices so that people can lodge their case or track their application ID by using it. "These expansion plans should be in place in the next two-three months,"he added.  The BPGRS provides for registering complaints at the subdivision, district and department level.  Being a time-bound system, the first hearing of the case will be in seven days from lodging the case while the decision should be delivered within 60 days of the filing of the case.  If the complainant is not happy with the verdict, s/he is entitled to appeal twice at the respective senior levels and, finally for a review at the topmost level. During the hearing, it is not necessary for the petitioner to be present in person. The digitally signed copy of the rulings will also be uploaded to the website," Siddharth said, adding that the digitally signed copy of the rulings will also be uploaded on the website.  Among the districts, a maximum of 249 complaints were lodged in Patna while Lakhisarai had the minimum 15 complaints. "All complaints relating to the departments should be lodged at the Soochna Bhawan's centralized office. It will then be redirected to the respective offices," he added.  Matters relating to the court, RTI, government services and RTPS are in the negative list and will not be taken up under the BPGRS.
 Patna: The first class judicial magistrate, Patna, Shema Eram, has ruled that a prima facie "case is made out" against ex-IGIMS director Arun Kumar, IGIMS's assistant administrative officer K N P Chaurasiya and the nursing college's then faculty member Nanda Kumar Paniyari in the sexual harassment case file by the institute's nursing college faculty member Rupashree Dasgupta.  The case was heard on June 7 after the Patna high court last month asked the lower court to hear the matter afresh. The lower court had earlier dismissed it on May 6, 2013. Paniyari is now serving in nursing college of AIIMS-Bhubaneswar.  The offence is punishable under IPC's Sections 354 (assault or criminal force on women with intent to outrage their modesty) and Section 509 (word, gesture or act to insult the modesty of women). While Section 509 is bailable, Section 354 was amended and made non-bailable in 2013, said Rupashree's lawyer Sanjeev Kumar.  The court order reads, "There is sufficient ground for proceeding against them (the accused)." Complainant Rupashree has been directed to file the requisites.  Sanjeev Kumar told TOI on Thursday that the requisites would be filed in a day or two even though the last date for it is June 14. Subsequently, the accused would be sent summons and a date of hearing will be fixed which is usually less than a month from the issuance of order. "If the accused fail to appear, I would file the plea for a warrant."  In her petition, Rupashree has alleged her problems began after joining the IGIMS in 2011. She sought allotment of a flat from the director, when he allegedly made advances to her. She has cited many incidents of harassment by him in the petition and alleged abetment by the other two accused. She also alleged many physical assaults.  She alleged that when she didn't succumb to the harassment, she was demoted.  Later, she was removed from her post in 2013, alleging that she did not fulfil the eligibility criteria.  However, a zero hour committee of the state legislative council, which also probed the matter in July 2014, said in its report, "Injustice was done to Rupashree. The image of Bihar would be tarnished if she is not given justice."  Months after this report and also that of an IGIMS committee, the institute reinstated her, but she did not withdrew the sexual harassment case.  She had challenged in the HC the lower court order dismissing her case and ruling in favour of Dr Arun Kumar, who had also filed a defamation case against her. The Patna high court quashed the order of the lower court.
 Patna: An acute shortage of staff and lack of infrastructure has affected the functioning of the state's largest homeopathic hospital at Kadamkuan here. The state government has allegedly turned a blind eye to the 10-bed hospital which has been lying in a dilapidated condition.  Sources said the hospital has a sanctioned strength of 14 employees but six are vacant. The post of sweeper is also lying vacant at the hospital. In addition to staff crunch, the hospital building is also in a dilapidated condition.  "Plant outgrowths have taken over the building's walls and ceilings, making it weak. A part of the building often crumbles down, making a thundering sound. The 2015 earthquake led to the collapse of a part of the building," said a source.  Dr Pandit Arjun Prasad, chief medical officer-cum-in charge of the hospital, admitted that it's very scary to work from the building. "The 2015 earthquake was a life threatening experience," Dr Prasad said.  "I have been working here since 2011.The hospital doesn't have its own building. We have sent repeated applications to the Homeopathy Board and State Health Society regarding the poor condition of the hospital building. More than 300 patients visit the hospital daily. They are mostly from lower income group who cannot bear expensive allopathic treatment.  The patients in summer come with the problem of boils and rashes. Children from nearby blind school also come for treatment," he added.  Sources said the patients visit the hospital from far off places as they get medicines at all times unlike any other government hospital. "Patients some to the hospital from Athmal Gola, Hilsa, Nalanda, Nagar Nausa and even from Kalayan Bigha, the native village of chief minister Nitish Kumar," said a source.  Dr Radha Kumari Sinha, who has been serving the hospital since its inception in 1987, said, "A huge chunk of plaster fell on my head on December 3, 2014. I was in a complete shock for a few days. On repeated requests, a tarpaulin has been erected. With monsoon round the corner, we are at the mercy of the nature. The ceiling of the drug store has also been covered with tarpaulin." She said.  Dr Suman Chandra, chairman of the Homeopathy Board, said "We have sent a letter to the authorities concerned requesting them to take necessary steps to improve the condition of the hospital."
 Patna: Unlike most parts of the country, Bihar is in for the twin conditions of flood and drought, as the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast 94% of normal rainfall in the state with eight per cent of variation, said disaster management department (DMD) minister Chandrashekhar on Thursday.  "In either case, the conditions are not favourable for the state. In that situation, the government is prepared to tackle both the conditions because high rainfall means flood and low rainfall implies drought," the minister said. Stating that the government is seized with making advance preparations to tackle both the conditions, DMD principal secretary Vyasji said CM Nitish Kumar is scheduled to review all the advance preparations through videoconferencing with divisional commissioners and DMs concerned of the respective divisions and districts very soon.  He also said 15 of the 38 districts are most flood-prone and 13 others just flood-prone. To combat the likely disaster-like situation arising from flood, land has been allotted for the permanent camp of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), while its teams would be deployed in Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Gopalganj and Patna districts. Similarly, State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) teams would also be deployed as needed.  As Vyasji said, 5,395 private boats, 3,649 government boats and 332 inflatable boats, among others, along with 363 trained boatmen and 1,598 trained divers are ready to be engaged in rescue and relief operations as per the need, while 328 medical teams would provide health check-up and care to the flood victims. He said the situation arising from quake is also on the map of the state government and necessary measures that could be taken have been mapped in 30 of the 38 districts which lie in one or the other type of the seismic zone.
 Motihari: Samastipur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sudhanshu Kumar Sharma on Thursday said he has ordered a probe into the wall collapse incident on platform number 1 at Bapudham railway station here on Wednesday, in which one minor girl Palak Kumari (10) died at the spot and five other children sustained severe injuries. "Stern action would be initiated against the guilty persons in case," said the DRM.  The GRP has lodged a case against the contractor and his manager engaged in wall construction. Two critically injured children were referred to PMCH, Patna from the Motihari sadar hospital on Wednesday.  The victim girl, Palak Kumari, and five of her friends were standing near the newly-constructed wall on Wednesday when it suddenly collapsed. Railway sources said the wall was constructed with substandard materials last week.  The girl child's death sparked outrage and an angry mob on Thursday blocked the Station Road and shouted slogans against the Samastipur DRM.  BJP MLA Pramod Kumar said he would meet railway minister Suresh Prabhu and lodge a complaint against the DRM. Prabhu will visit Bapudham station on Friday (June 10) to flag off a new express train from Motihari to Delhi.
Patna (Bihar), June 9 (ANI): The Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the   Bihar Police on Thursday arrested five persons in connection with the state board exams scam, while the police are on the lookout of two person, who are absconding. "Five persons have been found accused prima facie. We will send the papers for probe and more evidences will be revealed. Two persons have also been found accused-Lalkeshwar Rai, the chairman of the BSEB and Bachcha Rai, who is the faculty of the   Vishnu Roy College . We are working in the case and we are hopeful of exposing the scam," Senior Superintendent of Police Manu Maharaj told the media here. Divulging details of the searches, which were carried out in different colleges of the state, Maharaj said an FIR was registered, after which a special team was formed and divided to carry out raids in many colleges. "The FIR had names of seven persons-coordinator of Vishnu Roy College, G.A inter college's president, Raj Dev college's president and there were names of four students," he said. Revealing the names of the persons arrested in the scam, the SSP said, "Five persons who have been arrested are-Visheswar Yadav of the Rajkiya Vidyalaya,   Sanjeev Kumar Suman, Sambhunath Das, Ranjit Kumar Mishra and Shail Kumari. Prima facie there are evidences of forgery in the papers which we have seized. It has also got revealed that there were few selected schools that were being inspected." He further stated that based on the inspection of the colleges, changes were made in the mark sheets. "This is a big matter and other than these seven, there can be more arrests. All the decisions on the students will only be possible after the FSL report. It's a documentary-based case, so we will probe the matter based on the documents," he added. Amid mounting pressure with regard to alleged irregularities in the 10+2 exams, Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) secretary Harihar Nath Jha yesterday resigned from his post. The move came hours after the board's chairman Lalkeshwar Prasad Singh resigned from his post, following a second showcause notice by the education department. A team of state police and CID visited the BSEB headquarter earlier on Tuesday and perused the results of the intermediate examination. The team also took away Singh's computer, laptop and smart phone. The board had first served a notice to the chairman earlier on Saturday over Singh's unilateral decision to set up a judicial probe into the irregularities without the government's nod. That same day, the department of education set up a committee to investigate the matter as well. However, Chief Minister   Nitish Kumar dissolved both the committees the next day and ordered a criminal investigation into the entire episode. "It is matter of investigation, not inquiry, to fix accountability and take action against whoever is found guilty," he said. The Bihar School Examination Board ( BSEB) earlier on June 4 cancelled the results of two toppers, including Sourabh Shrestha, of the Intermediate (Science) examinations after they failed to prove their merits in a re-test. The board had on June 3 asked Sourabh and his college mate Rahul Kumar, who were among the 13 toppers from the arts and science streams in the Class XII examinations, to reappear in a re-test following a controversy over their merits. Saurabh Shrestha from the Science stream, who had secured 485 out of 500, was caught on camera failing to answer basic questions. Ruby Rai, the arts topper, from the same college failed to take the re-test on Friday citing health reasons. Rai had secured 444 marks out of 500 in the Arts stream. However, on camera she did not even appear to know the number of subjects in her course. (ANI)
PUNE: Corporators of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Shiv Sena clashed over the location of dog care centre to control the stray dog menace in the city during the weekly meeting of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation's standing committee. NCP corporator Narayan Bahirwade said, "The stray dog menace has increased in the city and there is need to control the growth of their population. The health department must set-up a dog care centre at the garbage depot in Moshi where all the stray dogs caught in the city can be kept for sterilization. The hotel waste collected by the department can be used to feed them. There are no stray dogs in Goa and Sikkim. Veterinary officer Satish Gore has principally approved to create such centre at Moshi."Shiv Sena corporator Dhananjay Alhat from Moshi said, "Moshi has becoming a dumping ground of waste from the city. People residing near the garbage depot are facing health problems due to the foul smell and other menace caused by the depot. We are totally opposed to creating the dog care centre at Moshi. PCMC is spending huge amount of money on developing Sambhajinagar ward as model ward and is neglecting other wards. All good things are being implemented in Sambhajinagar ward so the dog care centre too must be started there and Shiv Sena will not oppose expenditure on it."Corporators cutting across party lines have been complaining in the civic general body meetings about the increasing stray dog menace in their wards and the city and demanding that the health department take action to control the menace.
 Patna: The Special Investigation Team (SIT) formed to investigate the alleged intermediate toppers' scandal of the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) on Thursday arrested five persons for their alleged involvement in the scam.  Police have declared former BSEB chairman Lalkeshwar Prasad Singh an absconder as he was neither available at his residence nor has he surrendered. The SIT had detained seven persons in connection with the scam after an FIR was lodged with Kotwali police station on June 6 night. Of them, the five arrested are centre superintendent and principal of G A Inter School, Hajipur, Shail Kumari, principal-cum-director of evaluation centre of Rajendra Balak High School, Patna, Visheshwar Prasad Yadav, Sanjiv Kumar Suman, mathematics teacher and copy checker at Rajendra Balak High School, Patna, Ranjit Kumar Mishra, a clerk of Bihar Intermediate Council and Shambhunath Das, a clerk of BSEB's confidential section.  Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj, who heads the SIT, said, "All the five accused have confessed before police that Lalkeshwar himself used to direct them about answer sheet replacement. All the orders regarding answer sheets are supposed to come in writing, but Lalkeshwar used to give them verbal orders over telephone. So, we are collecting call data records of all the accused as well as of Lalkeshwar." Regarding the controversy about police's role in the escape of Bachcha Roy, who is allegedly one of the kingpins of the scam, Maharaaj said, "Vaishali inspector Shambhu Yadav has been working there for long and so we took him with the SIT during the raids there. The day the SIT arrived at the Vishun Roy College in Vaishali, it did not have a photograph of Bachcha. So, they could not recognize him even though he was present there."  Meanwhile, Patna city SP (central) Chandan Kushwaha on Thursday conducted a raid on the house of Bachcha Roy and seized answer sheets, a laptop, a mobile phone, property and admit cards.
Puducherry: Pro-tem speaker V P Sivakolunthu administered the oaths of office and secrecy to elected members of the Puducherry assembly, barring an All India NR Congress (AINRC) MLA, on Thursday. He administered the oath to 21 MLAs (14 Congress, two DMK, four AIADMK and a lone independent candidate) as soon as the assembly session convened for the first time after election.AINRC founder-president and former chief minister N Rangasamy and his party MLAs boycotted the session. Later, Rangasamy and six of his party MLAs were sworn in as MLAs by the pro-tem speaker at the latter's chamber. AINRC MLA S V Sugumaran from Mangalam constituency could not take charge as an elected members due to health reasons.The elected members barring health minister Malladi Krishna Rao from Yanam, Puducherry's enclave in Andhra Pradesh and independent candidate V Ramachandran from Mahe, territory's enclave in Kerala, took the oath in Tamil. Rao took oath in Telugu and Ramachandran in Malayalam.The assembly will convene again on June 11 to elect the speaker and deputy speaker. Former chief minister V Vaithilingam filed his nomination for the speaker post while Sivakolunthu did for the deputy speaker's post.Rangasamy downplayed the boycott of the session and also his decision to take oath at pro-tem speaker's chamber separately. "Our party MLAs decided to take the oath separately at the pro-tem speaker's chamber as per our convenience," he said. He gave an evasive reply to query on the announcement of the legislature party leader, who will be the leader of opposition in the assembly. He replied in affirmative when asked whether he had sought an appointment with AIADMK general secretary and Tamil Nadu chief minister Jayalalithaa.AINRC and AIADMK contested 2016 assembly poll independently and bagged eight and four seats respectively in the 30-member assembly.
The activists said that the size of the ministry acquired significance as Puducherry faces huge debt. The territory has to cut down unnecessary expenses to improve its financial health. "We solicit your expeditious action to limit the total size of the ministry of Puducherry to three only including the chief minister as per Indian Constitution and establish its supremacy," urged the memorandum. Retired Madras high court judge justice K Chandru said certain provisions of the constitution are mandatory in nature while others are recommendatory. "Sometimes 'shall' in the provisions has been construed as 'may'. And thus it becomes recommendatory. When the constitution does not prescribe any consequence of the disobedience, then disobedience is not treated as impropriety or illegal," he said. In the case of Union territories, the Lt Governor or Union home secretary can advise the government on the disobedience. As for Puducherry, which is spread in four different geographical locations, the need for representation of the different regions in the cabinet arises and hence the cabinet size may be bigger than what had been prescribed, he said.Former MP M Ramadass said all rules and regulations shall have clauses called 'saving clauses' that exempt certain conditions. "I think the Union home ministry must have permitted Puducherry to have a bigger cabinet size using the saving clause. However, saving clauses should be used only under extraordinary circumstances," he said. But, activists said the Lt Governor is the chief administrator of the Union territory and the cabinet and elected members can only play an advisory role. According to Article 239AA (Part VIII The Union Territories) of the Constitution, there shall be a council of ministers comprising not more than ten per cent of the total number of members in the legislative assembly, with the chief minister at the head to aid and to advise the Lt Governor in the exercise of his functions.LBS National Academy of Administration, Mussoorie, former professor N K Kumaresanraja said Puducherry is more like 'a glorified municipal corporation' lacking legislative powers to make laws on crucial portfolios. "Certain key portfolios including administrative control over land that are essential for governance is being restrained by the union ministry," he said.
PUNE: Bharatiya Janata Party's Chinchwad MLA Laxman Jagtap met defence minister Manohar Parrikar and demanded that the Bopkhel-Dapodi road and Kunjirvasti-Rakshak chowk road be re-opened for public as their closure is causing grave hardships to the local residents.Jagtap in a statement issued here has stated that he met Parrikar in New Delhi on Wednesday and said that the local residents of Bopkhel have to travel longer distances to go to their destinations after the defence authorities removed the temporary bridge on June 7. No alternative arrangements have been made by either the defence authorities or Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. He demanded that a pontoon bridge like the ones which are installed on Ganga for the Kumbh mela must be installed at Bopkhel to provide easy connectivity to Khadki and solve residents' problems. He also pointed out the difficulties faced by the local residents due to the closure of Kunjirvasti-Rakshak chowk road in Pimple Saudagar and demanded that it be reopened to reduce their problems. Parrikar has assured to find a concrete solution in a month regarding the alternative route for Bopkhel residents and the Pimple Saudagar road.The defence authorities closed both these roads around a year back on the directives of High Court for security reasons.
PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will table a report on privatising the garbage transport system. The PMC has outsourced the garbage transportation in two municipal wards to private operators."Garbage disposal is a sensitive issue. The civic body should take the whole responsibility of garbage disposal i.e. transport as well as scientific processing. If the transportation goes in private hands it may lead to problems. Monitoring and controlling transporters will be a tough task for PMC officials. Strikes or agitation by these private operators can lead to garbage pilling up in the city. The administration should drop the idea of outsourcing the garbage transport," said the elected members cutting across party lines while speaking at the general body meeting.Kunal Kumar, commissioner of PMC said that the administration will look into the matter. "The details about outsourcing drivers for garbage lifting vehicles and contract terms, will be sought. A review report will be given to the general body within 15 days," he said. In January 2015, the villagers of Uruli-Phursungi had stopped garbage trucks and had protested against improper garbage management. The state government had asked the PMC to stop garbage dumping. It had led to major garbage problem in city. The civic administration had drafted a 'special action plan to mitigate the garbage problem' in the meetings held with various stakeholders. The administration has planned to increase the decentralised garbage processing facilities.Pune generates nearly 1,600 metric tonne garbage every day. Out of that nearly 250 tonne is wet garbage and 850 tonnes is dry, while 500 tonnes is mixed garbage. Civic officials say that of the total garbage generated in the city every day, around 15% is plastic. The quantity is growing day by day as the population is increasing. Processing all this garbage is big issue due to non-availability of sites in the city.
Pune: A Balewadi-based software engineer received two setbacks over the last six months after unidentified suspects duped him of Rs10.2 lakh as he attempted to purchase a quad-copter (drone) from a popular e-commerce website. Sunil Markandeya (42) was duped by the drone seller as well as the alleged lawyer who promised to fight a case against the seller. He The victim Sunil Subhashrao Markandeya (42) of Balewadi lodged a complaint with the Chatushrungi police station on Thursday. Markandeya works with an IT company in Rajiv Gandhi Info-Tech Park, Hinjewadi.He stays with his wife and daughter at Balewadi.According to the complaint, in December 2015, Markandeya ordered a drone worth Rs40,000 on an e-commerce website famous for toys, and placed an order for the quad-copter (a drone) . He also furnished his e-mail ID and phone number on the website.As part of the transaction, he deposited the money in the bank account of one Leonard who was posing as the seller of the quad-copter. Leonard promised to ship the drone from US. Around 20 days later, Markandeya received a call saying that the gadget had landed at the Bangalore airport but it was stuck in customs clearance. The caller also informed Markandeya that he would have to pay a fine of Rs90,000 for customs clearance. As directed, he transferred the amount given to him.After a few days, when the drone was not delivered he did not receive the drone. Markandeya realized that he had been cheatedit was a fraud and he has been cheated by the unidentified suspects based in US. In January, this year, he discussed the fraud with a colleague, who suggested a US-based law firm that . One of his colleagues had stayed long in US. His colleague informed him that there is a law firm in US, which fights such cases and victim gets good compensation. The law firms treat such cases with utter seriousness, his colleague informed. The colleague shared an e-mail address of the law to contact the firm. Markandeya wrote to the lawyers requesting their help and out in the case. He provided all details related to the case in the email.Within hours, he received a reply saying that his case can be fought in US and he can get a compensation of $2 lakh. The law firm also informed him that a court based in Texas will hear the case. On January 8, this year, the lawyer informed Markandeya that the court had ruled in his favour and granted a compensation of $1.75 lakh. However, the lawyer asked him to pay his fees of $6,600 apart from other expenses which amounted to over Rs 9 lakh. Eventually, on June 6, the alleged lawyer sent him a parcel containing counterfeit currency and blank paper. he received a parcel from the alleged lawyer containing $6,600 USD cash. It was an iron suitcase containing counterfeit USD currency notes and blank papers having size of currency notes. In this way, the suspects duped him to a collective sum of Rs10.20 lakh.
PUNE: While the Y-flyover at Jedhe chowk in Swargate has recently been commissioned where part of the traffic from Satara road to Shanker seth road and Sarasbaug is moving, the situation for pedestrians has not improved at all, says NGO Pedestrians First. Convener of Pedestrians First, Prashant Inamdar said that the traffic density at Jedhe chowk has reduced to certain extent due to diversion of traffic via flyover. "However observations at site show that the situation for pedestrians has not at all improved. Betterment in the traffic situation has also not happened to the extent expected'', he said in an email to DCP traffic and Pune municipal commissioner. Inamdar said, "we had studied the Jedhe chowk flyover, grade separator and pedestrian subway plan prior to implementation and noted some serious issues. We had given certain suggestions which were discussed in joint meetings of PMC, MSRDC, Traffic police, PMPML and MSRTC in the year 2013. Some of our suggestions were accepted and certain modifications in the flyover plan were done accordingly''.Pedestrians First said, "it is seen that a substantial portion of the traffic (including all buses) has to remain at road level despite the flyover. In the circumstances pedestrians continue to face problems for walking and crossing roads in the area with the worst case scenario being at Jedhe chowk''.
Noida: A joint board meeting of three development authorities in Gautam Budh Nagar on Thursday decided that the ownership of all assets, except parking land earmarked on the Noida-Greater Noida Metro corridor, shall rest with the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC).All revenue generation by the NMRC will also accrue to the Metro company, it said. The decision is meant to improve the financial viability of the NMRC.According to officials, the revenue generated from commuter traffic as well as through advertisement and property development in the station area and viaduct, besides air space above the station shall accrue with NMRC. "The ownership of the parking land shall remain with Noida/Greater Noida as per their notified area," said Saumya Srivastava, deputy CEO (DCEO), Noida Authority, who also holds the charge of executive director, NMRC. "However, user and development rights of the parking area shall vest with NMRC. Revenue generation, if any, from this shall accrue to NMRC," he said.Srivastava said the Noida Authority has also allocated 2,250 square metres of land located in Ganga Shopping Complex, Sector 29, where the NMRC's office currently exists, for future expansion of the Metro company. "This land has been leased to the NMRC at the rate of Re 1 per annum," he said. "A floor area ratio of 1 has also been approved as permissible for any controlled construction by the Metro company for staff housing and operational areas," Srivastava said. "All these decisions will stand NMRC in good stead besides helping it to stand on its own feet," he said.The board also approved a policy to bring abadi land in Noida villages under the purview of its building bylaws. The move had come following reports of large-scale illegal occupation on such land besides a government order from the Uttar Pradesh chief secretary, restricting all district panchayats from clearing any building layout plans.However, hundreds of villagers from nearly 81 villages had opposed the move. Accusing the Noida Authority of adopting arm-twisting methods, nearly 600 villagers had threatened to intensify their stir against the building regulation norms leading the Authority to soft-pedal the issue."The policy has been formulated in consonance with the villagers and their misgivings. Initially these bylaws will be voluntary and not mandatory. They will also not apply to the old structures. The objective of these bylaws is to ensure planned development in rural areas at par with that in urban areas, besides curbing rampant encroachment," the DCEO said.The bylaws, when implemented, will define permissible ground coverage, percentage of commercial activity, parking spaces, height of boundary wall and fire safety norms in keeping with National Building Code and number of floors.
Puducherry, June 10 () Senior Congress leader and former chief minister V Vaithilingam is all set to be the new Speaker of the Puducherry Assembly as he was the only candidate to file papers till this afternoon, the deadline for submission of papers.  Vaithilingam, was the only candidate to present his nomination to the Secretary to the Assembly S Mohandas.  "No other candidate filed the papers till this afternoon, the deadline fixed for submission of papers," Mohandass told reporters.  The election of Speaker is slated for tomorrow.  Pro-Tem Speaker V P Sivakolundhu will make a formal announcement of Vaithilingam's election as Speaker of the newly constituted Assembly tomorrow when the House resumes it's session.  Vaithilingam will be the 19th Speaker of the Assembly.  66-year-old Vaithilingam was elected for the second successive term from Kamaraj Nagar constituency in the May 16 Assembly polls.  He earlier held the Nettapakkam segment since his first election in 1985 before shifting to Kamaraj nagar in 2011. The constituency was made a reserved segment in the 2011 polls following delimitation of territorial limits of Assembly constituency.  Vaithilingam was twice the Chief Minister. He held the post between 1991-1996 and replaced Rangasamy as chief minister of the Congress government in 2008.  He was Leader of the opposition in the last Assembly.  Mohandas said Sivakolundhu was also all set to be elected unopposed as the new Deputy Speaker of the Assembly as he was the only candidate to submit nomination papers for the post.  He said the new Speaker would announce the election of Sivakolundhu to the post of Deputy Speaker tomorrow on the floor of the House.  Both Vaithlingam and Sivakolundhu would assume office immediately tomorrow, he said. COR APR AMS KK
Pune: The civic body has decided to crack down on mutton and chicken sellers around Lohegaon Airport.The health department of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has sent notices to butcher shopowners stating that they should suspend their business to reduce the threat of bird hits on aircrafts."We have received letters from authorities involved in running and maintaining the airport. They have requested us to take action against activities such as slaughtering. A survey regarding it has been carried out and action is under way," head of PMC's health department S T Pardeshi said.Pardeshi said that four agencies Indian Air Fore, Airports Authority of India, Pune Municipal Corporation and Lohegaon Gram Panchayat are jointly working to reduce the problems in Gurdwara Colony, Dada Basti and Santnagar on Lohegaon-Wagholi road.Prakash Wagh, PMC's veterinary superintendent, said the action should be taken as per the Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporations Act, (BPMC) which includes notices to shut shops, fine and seizing weighing machines," Wagh said.According to Director General of Civic Aviation (DGCA), bird strikes are a threat to flights. "Wildlife and birds pose a significant threat to flight safety and have caused a number of accidents. , including incidents in India. Most incidents occur at the critical phase of flight, resulting in structural damage as well as damage to aircraft systems. As such, both wildlife and bird strikes remain a major focus for DGCA," states the Hand book on Safety for 2015-16 of DGCA.According to the book, the number of reported bird strikes at Indian Airports per 10,000 movements (only for 18 major airports in India) in 2014 was 4.92 and in 2015 was 4.68. The DGCA's target is to reduce it to 4.44 this year.A high-power National Bird Control Committee and Airfield Environment Management Committee has been set up to deal with these issues.According to Rule 91 of the Aircraft Act 1937, which was framed especially to reduce bird hits, slaughtering of animals or throwing garbage in the open within a 10km radius of the airport's reference point, (the centre point of the airport) is prohibited.
Pune: A special general body meeting for reviewing the civic administration's performance was adjourned on Thursday because only seven of the 157 corporators turned up.The corporators had been consistently blaming the civic administration for not taking its works seriously. But most corporators played truant at the review meeting from 11am. Those present were Ganesh Bidkar, the leader of the BJP in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Arvind Shinde, the leader of the Congress, and corporators Sanjay Balgude, Ranjana Murkute, Shreenath Bhimale, Ajay Tayde and Neelima Kulkarni.Shankar (Bandu) Kemse, the leader of the House as well as of the Nationalist Congress Party, was absent at the time of the adjournment of the meeting. He did not reply to a text message, asking the reasons for his absence.The facts and figures of several civic issues, including illegal cellphone towers, water supply problems, pending legal cases of PMC and public transport, could have come forth on Thursday. Thirty-two review reports of the civic administration were to be discussed in the special general body meeting - the maiden opportunity to debate on all pending review studies of the administration. Some of the reports were drafted two years ago, but were never tabled before the elected members.According to the rules, a general body meeting can be conducted only if at least a third of the corporators are present. According to the PMC's strength, a minimum of 52 corporators must be present to start the meeting. Since only seven corporators turned up in the special general body meeting on Thursday, Bidkar tabled the proposal to adjourn it because of lack of quorum. The meeting would now be conducted after three months - in August."The issue was serious. The elected members should have been present in this meeting. We shall write to all our corporators to make sure they attend the next meeting on this matter," said Bidkar.Shinde, the leader of opposition, said the morning time should be avoided for meetings. "It becomes tough for the corporators to attend meetings at 11am, especially for those staying on the fringes. Besides, most of the elected members are attending to citizens at their wards at present because of the upcoming elections and the ongoing admission season. These interactions happen in the morning. So, corporators avoid attending the general body meetings in the morning or arrive late," Shinde said.
Pune: Candidates from outside Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad who want to secure admission in first year junior colleges (FYJC) will have to get approval from zonal heads on necessary documents before submission of forms.The zonal heads would verify and recommend candidates if all documents are clear. Candidates can approach the nine zonal offices appointed by the centralised admission process (CAP) committee in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, read a statement issued by the committee on Thursday.In the statement, Meenakshi Raut, secretary of the committee, said candidates applying in both open and reserved categories must personally visit the zonal centres with their documents and check their forms online for an error-free process. Candidates should carry copy of their secondary school certificate (SSC, standard X) results obtained from the official website as they are yet to receive their school leaving certificate. They will have an option to submit bonafide certificate signed by the school principal which would mention their caste, religion, mother-tongue, birth date among others. Candidates should also carry a caste certificate, if necessary.Students from other education boards must also refer to the information booklet for the required documents, Raut said. All zonal heads have been instructed that upto June 15, no candidate should be sent back for not carrying their school leaving certificate if they possess the alternative documents as mentioned in the information booklet.
Pimpri Chinchwad: The Catholic Association of Poona (CAP) has urged the district collectorate to allot land for burial grounds in Pimpri Chinchwad.In a memorandum submitted to district collector Saurabh Rao and former deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, the association said there is only one cemetery in Dapodi and that additional land should be allotted at various places."The existing development plan has land reserved for burial ground, gardens or play grounds. Burial grounds should be allotted in Sangvi, Pimple Gurav, Wakad, Pimple Saudagar, Bopkhel and Chinchwad," CAP vice-president Leonard Vaz said.
Pune: A financial analyst was the latest victim of debit card cloning in the city.Ravindra Surendra Chouhan, a senior analyst of Deutsche Bank Group Company in Yerawada, lost Rs 80,000 on Wednesday. The fraud came to light in the morning when he received text messages on his cellphone that eight transaction of Rs 10,000 each were made around 4.20am. Chouhan (29), a native of Uttarakhand, registered a complaint under the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act at the airport police station and also filed a complaint with the bank's Aundh branch.Chouhan in his complaint said that he reached home around 12.45am on Wednesday. At 6am, he received eight text messages that money was withdrawn from his savings account at the Khar branch of Deutche Bank in Mumbai.A panicked Chouhan contacted the bank's customer care and found out that the transactions were made with his debit card.He then registered a complaint against the cyber fraudster saying that the cyber fraudster had duped him in a debit card cloning fraud. He also filed a complaint with the bank's Aundh road branch in this regard. Chouhan told TOI over phone that he did not receive a telephone call from the fraudster and received text messages that the money was transferred from his account.Chouhan told TOI over phone, "The bank officials have told me that my complaint has been referred to their investigation branch for conducting an inquiry, which is expected to take 40 days." "I don't know how my debit card was cloned or how the fraudster received details of my card. I have appealed to the police to conduct a detailed investigation and take action against the fraudster as soon as possible," he added.Inspector V T Sonde (crime) of the airport police station said, "We suspect this to be a case of debit card cloning fraud. We have sent a letter to Deutsche Bank asking them to give details of the transactions made by the fraudster, for instance in whose bank account Chouhan's money was transferred or whether the fraudster used the debit card for making purchases. After receiving a reply from the bank, we will collect footages of CCTV cameras which may have captured images of the fraudster." Deputy commissioner of police (cyber crime) Deepak Sakore said, "The fraudster has got the complainant's debit card cloned because he had used it at some place. The bank, in such cases, should refund the amount to the complainant because he is not at fault."A spokesperson of Deutsche Bank Group told TOI, "All our banking clients for debit card transactions are insured and we will follow the due process for insurance claim and settlement."
Pimpri Chinchwad: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is developing a mobile application to enable citizens lodge complaints regarding civic amenities. The app is expected to be ready in a month. After installing it on smartphones, citizens would simply have to Citizens in Pimpri Chinchwad have to just click photographs of on smartphones about potholes and forward the images sent it online to the civic bodythe municipal corporation. Based on the information, the road department authorities would begin to repair the potholes.PCMC is developing a mobile application (app) which will enable the citizens to lodge complaints regarding civic amenities. The app will be ready in one months time.Providing details about the mobile application, PCMC's information and technology officer Neelkanth Poman said, "Users will be able to pay property and water taxes, register their grievances about civic amenities and register pothole-related complaints through the app. The pothole complaint system is being developed on priority as monsoons will begin in a few days and people may face the problems of potholes and will need a solution for them. Later, we will initiate other grievance redressal systems on the app for the remaining grievances, as well as a system for paying property and water tax."To use the mobile application, users will have to Explaining the method of usage, he said, "First the user will have to download it and complete a one-time registration process. "The user will have to click a photograph of the problem for example a pothole and upload it to the application, which will the photograph. The app will automatically tag the geo-location of the spot and give the exact longitude and latitude. The user will have to select the department which is related to the problem like engineering, water supply, property tax, drainage, and others. The complaint will automatically go to the junior, deputy and executive engineer of the concerned department who is in charge of the jurisdiction the location."Meanwhile, PCMC will impart training to all employees of the engineering department about how to use the app and reply to a complaint about specific grievances. A follow-up of the action taken on complaints will be conducted until it is resolved. "The complainant will be informed of the action taken on the complaint. If the complainant has provided an email id, then, after resolving the complaint, photographs of the spot will be emailed to him or her," Poman explained."The mobile app will be in addition to the Sarathi helpline, citizen facilitation centre (CFC) and other facilities available to citizens. Rules mentioned in the citizen charter and centralized grievance system will be applicable to the complaints made under this application too and they will be resolved in the given time limit," he added.
Raipur: A state-level training programme is being organised by Red Cross Society for safe storage and proper use of sweetened flavoured milk that state government's women and child development department is distributing to children of age group 3-6years. The milk is being distributed to kids enrolled at Aanganbadi centres under Mukhyamantri Amrit Yojana. Under this scheme, each child is provided 100ml of milk on Monday every week. In the training programme, detailed information about dos and don'ts for storage, distribution and use of this milk was shared. Experts said that packets of flavoured milk should be kept at normal temperature at dry and clean place, away from insects and mice. "Use clean utensils and glasses for serving milk to children. Aanganbadi assistants and workers will themselves taste and check the quality of milk before serving it to children," the organisers advised. In case children complained of vomit, headache, stomach pain and dysentery after consuming milk, they should be rushed to nearby primary health centre. It was informed during the training that milk should not be served from packets with leakage or spilt milk. Milk should not be served to children allergic to milk and should be consumed within 1-2 hours of opening the packet. Officials advised that flavoured milk should not be boiled and should not be consumed after 90 days from the date of manufacturing. The milk distributed under the scheme is UHT milk that is completely sterilized. The milk contains 3gm protein, 97kcal energy, total fat 3%, NSF 8.5%, 14gm carbohydrate, and 10gm of added sugar. It was also informed that for safely transporting milk to remote rural areas, milk produced through UHT process in ultramodern plant affiliated to Chhattisgarh State Cooperative Dairy Federation should be taken. In UHT process, milk is heated at 140 degree centigrade for three seconds and then immediately cooled to 25 degree centigrade in a second. This thermal shock sterilizes the milk, which can be then consumed without boiling it first. Milk is packed with packaging material of seven layers in aseptic condition, so that the milk could be stored at normal temperature and it remains fit for consumption for upto 90 days. Natural colours and flavours approved by Food and Medicine Administration Department, Government of India, is used for sweetening and flavouring the milk. No preservatives are used. After production, milk is tested at advanced laboratory of physical, chemical and microbiological examination plant. When it passes all the tests, the UHT milk is provided for distribution.
Pune: A project manager employed with a multinational IT firm, at Rajiv Gandhi Infotech Park, Hinjawadi, was allegedly duped to the tune of Rs 10.2 lakh while purchasing a quadcopter worth Rs 40,000 from USA. The 42-year-old complainant, who lives in Balewadi, got the shock of his life when he was told that he would receive $1.75 lakh as compensation for being duped by the US-based firm, but instead was doublecrossed and given a box full of fake notes and waste paper.According to the FIR registered with Chatushrungi police station, in November 2015, the complainant had placed an order through RCIndia.org for a quadcopter which he intended to use for work. It was priced at Rs 40,000 out of which he reportedly transferred Rs 10,000 to the account of one Sameer Leonard with whom he was in touch for the deal.On November 24, 2015, he received a call from a person, who identified himself as Sanders informing him about the gadget being stuck with the customs department in Bengaluru and that he is required to pay Rs 90,000 more. The complainant was told that he will get this amount with the gadget.Twenty days later, even after this amount was paid, the gadget did not arrive. "One of my colleagues, who had lived in the USA previously, told me that he knew Jeremy Fischer, a lawyer who handled such cases. On contacting him, Fischer assured me I would be compensated $2 lakh (Rs 1.33 crore) from the Texas County Court," the complaint told police.Then on January 8, 2016, he was informed by Fischer that the court had approved a compensation of $1.75 lakh."Fischer informed me that the court has deposited my compensation amount with a company and gave me number of one William Ken with whom I had to liaise for the amount. When I contacted Ken, he told me to pay $6,600 dollars for KYC (know your customer) verification. Ken gave me account numbers of his agents in India and asked me to transfer the amount. I transferred a total of Rs 9.2 lakhs in eight bank accounts in India," the complainant recalled.On June 6, at 3.30 am, one Michael called the complainant saying he was near his house with the compensation amount. He gave him an iron box and zoomed away."When I opened the box, it contained four fake notes of 100 dollars and under them were waste papers of same size," the FIR states.The police have registered a case of cheating under the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Information Technology Act. Senior police inspector Dayanand Dhome, incharge of Chatushrungi police station, is further investigating the case.
Pune: In the last few years, there has been an increasing trend among students to take up unconventional courses after standard XII. The innumerable advertisements and colleges cropping up in town are an example of its popularity.From fees of Rs 2,46,845 for a design course at National Institute of Design (NID) to a course of almost Rs 9 lakh per annum in private colleges, which include accommodation and tuition fee, there is no dearth of avenues for these courses. TOI takes stock of various courses available.Sanjeevani Ayachit, deputy director of Symbiosis Institute of Design and head of the department of fashion said it is not necessary to have a background in art but a flair for drawing would help the students in their endeavour. "Nowadays there is software available which can be used by students. But if the student has a knack for drawing, he will be able to put his thoughts on paper better," Ayachit said.Talking about courses that are in demand, Ayachit said there are takers for all types of courses in design, but fashion communication and user experience design are the trend setters. "Offhand, I can say that these two courses are crowd pullers.Fashion communicators work as fashion stylists and visual merchandisers in advertisement agencies and marketing etc. They will be able to communicate how to advertise a product for the masses," she said. Ayachit added that the course generally attracts a girl crowd, while all other streams had an almost equal number of boys and girls.Nitesh Mohanty, an alumnus of Sir JJ school of Art and NID working as a freelance visual artist and a teacher at MICA, NID and TISS is often bombarded with questions about taking up design as a course and he has only one answer for all, "If it is your passion, go for it. Never go for the money."Mohanty has come to realise that though there are many specialisations offered, the industry itself is not open to the idea of super specialisations. "There are luxury brand managers, stylists etc. But, how many fashion outlets employ stylists in their showrooms in India. In malls, there are no experts to tell you what will look good on you because no company is ready to employ specialists in retail outlets. Hence, even a basic design course is good enough if you have the talent," Mohanty said.Mohanty said due to an unregulated market, students of design cannot be put in any pay bracket. "There are students who get as much as IIM graduates and then there are some who get peanuts. If you have the talent and confidence, it hardly matters which college you come from. The future is for IT enabled designs, hence graphic designers, game designers and animation students will have more avenuesthan their peers in other branches," he added.While many students have been taking up unconventional courses after class 12th for a few years now, there is an increasing trend of students applying for design and animation courses in the country. The innumerable advertisements and colleges cropping up almost everywhere in town is an example of its popularity.From a fee of Rs 2, 46, 845 for a design course in National Institute of Design to almost Rs 9 lakh fee per annum in private colleges which includes a student's accommodation and tuition fee, there is no dearth of avenues for these courses. TOI takes the stock of various options available and also asks industry experts whether paying exorbitant fee also translate into well-paying jobs.Sanjeevani Ayachit, deputy director of Symbiosis Institute of Design and also head of the department at fashion said that while it is no necessary to background in art, a flair for drawing will only help the students in their endeavor."Nowadays there is much software available which can be used by students. But if the student has a knack for drawing, he will be able to put his thoughts on the paper better," said Ayachit.Talking about trends, Ayachit said that while there are takers for all types of courses in Design, 'Fashion Communication' and 'User Experience Design' are one of the trend setters."Offhand I can say that these two are crowd pullers. Fashion Communicators work as fashion stylist, visual merchandiser, in advertisement agency; in marketing etc. Basically these people will be able to communicate how to advertise a product for the masses," said Ayachit adding that while Fashion field has more girls than boys getting enrolled, all other streams have almost an equal number of boys and girls.Nitesh Mohanty, an alumnus of Sir JJ school of Art and NID, now works as a freelance visual artist and also a teacher at MICA, NID and TISS. He gets a lot of questions from aspirants about taking up design as a course and he has only one answer for all; 'If it is your passion, go for it; never go for the money.'Nitesh says that while there are many speacialisation options, the industry has still not opened to the idea of super specialisations. "There are luxury brand managers, stylists etc. But how many fashion outlets employ stylists in their showrooms in India. In malls etc, there are no people who will expertly tell you what will look good on you because no company at present is ready to pay so much to employ specilialists in retail outlets. Hence even a basic design course is good enough if you have talent," said Mohanty.Mohanty further said that due to the unregulated market, the students of design cannot be put in any pay bracket. "There are students who get as much as an IIM graduate gets and then there are some who gets peanuts. Secondly, if you have the talent and confidence, it hardly matters which college you have completed your course from. Thirdly the future is for IT enabled designs and hence graphic designers, game designers and animation students will obviously have more avenues opening up than their peers in other branches," said Mohanty.
Raipur: Amid worries over displacement of tribal population in Bastar, Chhattisgarh government has raised objection over Polavaram dam being built in Andhra Pradesh, pointing out that the dam is being constructed in violation of agreements of 1978 and 1980. Official sources said both Chhattisgarh and neighbouring Odisha raised the issue at a meeting convened by ministry of water resources at New Delhi on June 2 and pointed out that construction was not being carried out in accordance with the agreements signed by Andhra Pradesh government on August 7, 1978 and April 1980 with undivided Madhya Pradesh. State water resources secretary Ganesh Shankar Mishra and senior officials of water resources department attended the meeting. Polavaram dam, which is being constructed on Godavari river in Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh, is just about 43km from state border in South Bastar. The Chhattisgarh government has also filed a civil suit in Supreme Court. Official sources said the concern of Chhattisgarh is that with the present design there is a possible threat of backwaters gushing to Sabri River in Bastar while Odisha could face similar problem at its Sileru River. About 18 villages in Sukma district could get submerged, leading to displacement of tribal population. During the budget session of Vidhan Sabha, legislator Amit Jogi and a number of other tribal MLAs had raised the issue, pointing out that the present work on Polavaram dam would lead to displacement of more than 40,000 people in the region. Undivided Andhra Pradesh and undivided Madhya Pradesh had entered into an agreement on August 7, 1978, for the project aimed at irrigation, power generation and augmentation of water in Krishna basin. Without taking the then Madhya Pradesh government into confidence, Andhra had surveyed the area likely to be submerged and prepared a project report. The report indicated that 2,717 people of 680 families, 42 pucca and 300 'kutcha' houses would be affected. About 2,398 hectares would be submerged. When Andhra government began construction work in early 2006, Chhattisgarh government lodged its protest with Centre and the Godavari Water Disputes Tribunal saying it will withdraw from the project. Chhattisgarh government termed the Andhra report as bogus. Indravati project officials maintain that actual affected area would be known only after another survey.
Pune: The suicide of a Class 10 student in Kothrud on Monday despite securing 60% in the exams has reiterated the need to have a qualified counsellor in all schools and a standard helpline.The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has helpline numbers for students during examinations. However, it does not provide such help during the days of the result. The agency in charge of helplines during exams said that despite its proposal to offer the service during results, their work order was not approved by the board.On the other hand, CBSE mandates a counsellor in all its schools and has centralised helpline numbers for students to help cope with anxiety during and after results. Another student hanged himself to death in Kurla on Monday despite passing Class 10 allegedly because he thought he will not get an admission in an engineering course.Those manning suicide prevention helplines run by non-governmental organisations (NGO) in the city say that there has been a 50% increase in calls over the last few years.Connecting NGO, a Pune-based suicide prevention and survivor support organization, would complete 11 years on June 10. Helpline coordinator Pooja Kamble said, "Almost 70% callers are male and the average age group is between 25 and 40. But now there are an increasing number of calls from youths less than 25 years old." She added that the NGO has tied up with 10 schools and a hospital to conduct awareness programmes.Kamble feels that awareness on how to deal with pressure and how to become a 'mindful listener' is the only way to prevent suicide. "If you think someone is depressed and confront them, they will be on the defensive. Questions should, instead, be such that the person starts thinking about his/ her decision. Help from professionals should be sought immediately if you think anything is wrong," she said.The state board employs a set of counsellors during examinations. But when it comes to the period of results, there are no such provisions done by the board. Another case of suicide was registered in Kurla where a student hung himself to death despite passing his class 10th allegedly because he thought he will not get admission in Engineering course owing to his low marks.Anuradha Sahasrabudhe, founder of Dnyana Devi NGO, which runs the Union government-supported Childline, the 24/7 helpline for children in distress, said, "Counsellors during results will definitely help. But what is needed more is continuous counselling, say from Class 9 onwards till Class 12. This will make students strong and help them deal with various problems."Sahasrabudhe also added that parents need counselling. "I have encountered situations where parents get their child to me saying that despite all their best efforts, the child wasn't studying and was moody. When I talked to the child, the child was on the verge of suicide just to get back at his parents for putting pressure on him. Parents need to understand boundaries and treat children with respect and that can only happen with counselling," Sahasrabudhe said.Pawan Gaikwad, co-ordinator at the Academy of Personality Development, said, "We were asked to given the responsibility of provide counsellors during exam season, from February to March. We have been telling the board that counsellors are required even during results. Finally, they told us to give them an official letter stating our request but no work order was issued."Gaikwad, however, adds that despite notices stating that counselling will only be during the exam period, they get calls even later. "Students need help and someone they can talk to, especially during the time of results. That is when most students think of suicide due to peer and parental pressure. Many students go into depression and hence all schools and the board must have counsellors," he added.Madhavi Sawant, a software professional and a parent said, "Even if there is no parental pressure, nowadays children have high expectations. When they are unable to live up to that, they think they have failed. In this age of competition, if they are unable to perform as good as their friends in their group, or are unable to get admission in the college where their friends have enrolled, it hurts them. A helpline would be of use. Nowadays, every child has a cellphone and they can easily call the number if they need help."
RAJKOT: BCCI announced that one of the test match of five test match series will be played at Saurashtra Cricket Association Stadium in Rajkot. Cheteshwar Pujara, one of the finest Test Player from Saurashtra, stated, "Glad to hear that Rajkot is being allotted a Test Match. It will create more interest for test cricket in the entire region and it is like homecoming as the land of Saurashtra has rich heritage of having some great test players. It will motivate the young players to connect with test cricket by watching and learning the richness of Test Cricket." "My hearty congratulations to Niranjanbhai and Saurashra Cricket Association for having Test Match India vs England. I have recently played IPL matches in Saurashtra Cricket Association Stadium. This Stadium is fully equipped for all formats of Cricket. I am very confident that Cricket fans of Gujarat will enjoy witnessing the test match." Said prominent Indian Cricketer and Gujarat Lion's captain Suresh Raina. "It is indeed a matter of pride and privilege to have Test Match being played in Rajkot. It is a dream come true.", expressed Niranjan Shah, Hony Secretary of Saurashtra Cricket Association. For any State Association, being a Test Match Centre as well as having the test to be played is the ultimate prestige, he added. "Many Congratulations! Rajkot is one of the best new stadiums in the country. Seeing the success of IPL, International T20 and other One Day International Matches, and the way the crowd thronged the stadium, it was no long before a Test match was allotted to them. I am very glad for them." Expressed Ravi Shastri, former Cricketer and former director of Indian Team. "Great to see the test match is finally awarded to Rajkot. This will help the region to grow as a Cricketing centre and I am sure lot may players will get inspiration to play test cricket. Especially with new stadium under construction in Ahmedabad, cricket lovers from all over Gujarat will not miss watching test cricket live." Said Parthiv Patel, prominent Cricketer from Gujarat. Mahendra Rajdev, former and prominent Cricketer from Saurashtra stated that it is proud moment for every Cricket lovers of Saurashtra. Having Test Match in Rajkot is indeed dream come true. Former Cricketer and Captain of Saurashtra Prakash Bhatt expressed, " It is indeed a great feeling to know that Rajkot will be holding its first test match, India vs England, on its soil in one of the most beautiful stadium in the country. The oldest format of game of cricket will be a pleasure to watch and witness.
Pune: A city civil court categorically observed in an interim order in January this year that the ownership of the 76,400 sqm land at Karegaon, which is at the centre of a row over an alleged dubious deal, belonged to the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) as of now. The deal involved Rohit Kamlakar, son of senior IPS officer Dhananjay Kamlakar, and four other purchasers. Joint civil judge senior division V S Malkalpatte-Reddy had then rejected an application by the land purchasers seeking an injunction against their possible eviction from the property following the revenue authorities' move in September last year to delete their names from the records and enter MIDC's name as the land owner. This was after MIDC had objected to the sale transaction. The court observed, "The plaintiffs (purchasers) have failed to make out prima facie case as the suit property is acquired and owned by defendant no. 1 (MIDC). Balance of convenience is in favour of defendants, irreparable loss will be caused to the defendants as, if interim relief is granted, it will cause chaos in the functioning of the industrial belt as there will be no area assigned for disposal of chemical waste." Rohit's partner and one of the purchasers Bhujangrao Ogale told TOI, "We have done a proper legal sale transaction relating to the land and false allegations are being levelled against us. We have filed an appeal in the district court against the lower civil court's order. The matter is also being investigated by police. I have nothing to say beyond this." The MIDC had acquired the land on February 14, 1993 and the same was marked for a Common Effluent Treatment Plant for disposal of chemical waste generated by industries in and around the Ranjangaon five star industrial estate, located 50 km from here on the Pune-Ahmednagar highway. Rohit, along with Ogale (his power of attorney holder) and three others, claimed to have purchased this land by executing sale deeds on April 17 and May 5, 2015. The purchasers claimed that they entered into this deal after an MIDC official, responding to their plea for no-objection, issued them a letter on March 26, 2015 stating that the land was not part of the MIDC's layout or the area acquired for industrial use. The MIDC has contested this letter, claiming it was not issued by an appropriate authority and that the letter did not construe a no objection. The court observed in reference to the letter, "It was incumbent on the plaintiffs to have considered whether the land has been acquired by seeking information from appropriate forum. What was the need to issue the letter to MIDC and seeking no objection from them has not been brought on record."The court noted, "The issuance of letter (seeking NOC) by the plaintiffs clearly reflect that they had knowledge about the acquisition of the land by the government which was handed over to MIDC." The court observed that they had knowledge about the original owners of the land having received an enhanced compensation granted by a Pune district court. "It is a settled preposition of law that entries in the 7/12 (revenue) extracts are for fiscal purpose. The same will not determine ownership. The land is owned by the defendant no.1 (MIDC) as on date which has been demarked for disposal of chemical waste," the court observed. We have done a proper legal sale transaction relating to the land and false allegations are being levelled against us. We have filed an appeal in the district court against the lower civil court's order. The matter is also being investigated by police. I have nothing to say beyond this
Raipur: A mechanical engineering student of tribal Bastar region has been acclaimed for making Accelero robotics- a censor operated robot at a cost of Rs 1,500--at a robot building competition Indo-US Robo League held at Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Mumbai recently. Tribal students Yogesh Kumar and his friends Bhuvnesh Kumar and Rina Nareti are final year students of Bachelors of Technology at MATS University. They learnt the tricks of robot making from a workshop, which was held in their college by an IT company and this imbibed a long lasting impression to explore the world of robotics. Hence Yogesh insisted upon his friends Bhuvnesh and Rina to make an attempt at the robot making competition in Mumbai. Despite having less exposure, it was just Yogesh's zeal that he pursued his classmates to participate in the IIT competition, where thousands of students came to showcase their talent. While explaining the features of their Robot, Yogesh said, "The robot is programmed to understand and move in directions according to censor technology held in hands. This could be useful for companies dealing in fast-moving consumer goods." Though the trio remained unqualified to secure position in top three ranks, they were appreciated by professors of IIT.Yogesh is a Dantewada-based student, who secured 85.6% in his higher secondary examination and received scholarship under government scheme for his graduation degree of BTech in Mechanical. Further, to get admission in top technological institutes for his masters degree, Yogesh is preparing for Graduate Aptitude Test in engineering without any coaching and aims to crack the exam successfully.The Bastar boy is influenced by the legendary physicist Stephen Hawking and aims to work in arena of space technology at Indian Space Research Organisation or in NASA to live up to the dream of harnessing space technology for national development.
Pune: An eight-year-old boy was killed after a speeding tempo knocked him down in Pimpri on Thursday evening.The deceased has been identified as Shantanu Prashant Sutar of Balamala Chawl in Pimpri. The incident occurred when Shantanu with other boys was playing on a road in Pimpri village. "A speeding tempo, owned by a private company, knocked the boy down. He was immediately taken to a nearby hospital where he was declared dead on arrival by the doctors," police said.The Pimpri police said the boy's parents work as casual labourers in private companies in MIDC area. "We have detained the driver," police said.30-yr-old feared drownedShankar Mahadev Erande, a 30-year-old resident of Antulenagar in Kondhwa, is feared drowned after he jumped into a quarry filled with water for swimming on Thursday evening. The Pune fire brigade had carried out search operation in the quarry at Yevalewadi near Kondhwa for two hours, but could not spot him. An officer of the Kondhwa police station said, "The fire brigade will resume the search operation on Friday morning to trace Erande."
Noida: The RWA federation has demanded a participatory role in the decision-making of the Noida Authority after the increase in land allotment rate, which, according to the umbrella body, should not have been taken without giving it a hearing."Where is the land to sell or allot and what makes them decide the said hiked rates. Where is the people/residents' participation in such decisions," asked N P Singh, president, Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Associations. tnn"The authority has enough money to carry out developmental work and hence the logic to generate capital by increasing land rate does not hold ground. This will only lead to recession in the long run. Eventually it'll be the residents who will suffer in the end," said Singh.
Puducherry: Puducherry police arrested two men from Chennai on charges of murdering a native of the Union territory and launched a hunt for two others, including a woman. The arrested were identified as A Anbu, 43 of Royapuram and his aide K Karthick from the same locality. The deceased was identified as K Gavaskar of Kirumampakkam, who returned to Puducherry a few months ago after staying near Anbu's house for over 12 years at Royapuram. Police said Gavaskar, during his stay in Royapuram, had filmed Anbu's wife on mobile phone while she was bathing. He sought sexual favours from her by threatening to release the video online. When the woman told her husband about the incident the couple along with their relatives forced him to leave the city.Aafter returning to Puducherry, Gavaskar released the videos online. When the couple learned about it they decided to eliminate him. Anbu and his aides reached the hotel in Puducherry where Gavaskar was working . They took him to a secluded part on the East Coast Road near Mahaballipuram, brutally assaulted him, hanged him from a tree and fled. Police produced the arrested before a local court that remanded them in judicial custody.
RAIPUR: Around two dozen Maoists on Thursday attacked an Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) camp with country-made projectiles at Ranapal in Chhattisgarh's Kondagaon district on Thursday. The camp is set up close to one of the worst Maoist-hit regions to provide security to an under-construction bridge over a rivulet.Officials said the camp came under attack around 12.30 am and it continued intermittently for 45 minutes as ITBP jawans retaliated.  Kondagaon superintendent of police Santosh Singh said there were no casualties or loss of property. He said the Maoists fired four country-made projectiles. "...Nearly 20 Maoists were present during the attack. The rebels later fled into a forest in the face of heavy gunfire from ITBP jawans," he said, adding that a combing operation had been launched. Singh denied rumours that rocket launchers were used in the attack and added projectiles were fired with help of mortars, which were recovered from the camp. "Maoists fired at least 10-15 rounds and no automatic weapons were used. Muzzle-loading guns are suspected to have been used,'' he said.
Pune: City-based software startup Helpshift on Thursday said it has raised $23 million (approx. Rs 154 crore) in Series B funding with participation from new and existing investors like Microsoft Ventures and Salesforce Ventures. The company, however, did not disclose the amount of stake it diluted in the process. With this latest round, the total funds raised by the company since its inception in 2012 stands at $36.2 million. Helpshift builds customer support platform for mobile and web. Their support platform includes functionalities such as in-app FAQs, in-app chat, a full CRM ticketing system, in-app campaigns and surveys.Helpshift said it's software is installed on over 1.3 billion devices worldwide, serving over 300 million cellphone customers monthly. "...There is an exciting world ahead of us where customers can proactively receive help even before they face a problem through predictive machine learning, customers can chat with intelligent bots to receive timely help and algorithms based on data can make customer support agents 'real superheros.' This new round of funding enables us to take what we started to the next level - the world of autonomous customer support," said Abinash Tripathy, CEO & Co-founder, Helpshift.The company aims to use the funds to "fuel expansion of its research & development and its sales and marketing functions.""Helpshift has been a great partner for Microsoft and our investment today represents our confidence in their messaging-based approach to customer service, as we hold a shared value of providing the seamless experience customers want," said Nagraj Kashyap, corporate vice president, Microsoft Ventures.Helpshift has 60 people engineering team in Pune and 30 member sales and marketing team in San Francisco. The company is also looking to expand into Bangalore in the next two quarters.
Raipur, Jun 10 () The election to Chhattisgarh Assembly is over two years away, but former Chief Minister   Ajit Jogi 's recent announcement to float a new party has led to speculation about its possible impact on the state's bipolar politics dominated by   BJP and Congress. It is impossible at this stage to predict the gains Jogi's new outfit may or may not make in the Assembly election, but Jogi's sudden decision has created a buzz right from Delhi to   Raipur , a political observer said. The fact that he has a strong following in the state despite being out of power since a long time has prompted the ruling BJP as well as the Congress to devise strategies to counter him, he claimed. Jogi had said he was forced to make the new outfit as the state Congress was incapable of taking on the   Raman Singh government. "It appears that the main opposition Congress is working like a supporter of the ruling BJP instead of fighting against its misrule. The state needs a strong opposition. My supporters and well wishers want me to take a decision to free this state from the corrupt governance," Jogi said. The ruling BJP is likely to face anti-incumbency factor, apart from stiff opposition from Congress and a third party led by Jogi in the 2018 Assembly polls. Jogi has considerable influence over the Satnami SC community and tribals who comprise nearly 50 per cent population of the state, and he may damage the prospects of both BJP and Congress. If he succeeds in garnering support of SC voters, it could harm the BJP, which is currently holding 9 out of 10 SC reserved seats in the Assembly. However, leaders of the two key parties do not see Jogi as a threat and, infact, claim that they will be benefited with his move. "Jogi's disassociation with the Congress would inflict damage to the main opposition's vote bank in the state which in-turn will benefit BJP. It's not right to say BJP is worried with the recent political events in the state," BJP state chief   Dharamlal Kaushik said. Chhattisgarh Pradesh Congress Committee chief Bhupesh Baghelalso feels Jogi's new outfit will certainly help his party to wrest power in Chhattisgarh. MORE TKP GK RT
Pune: A 28-year-old man was killed and his four friends suffered grievous injuries after the car they were travelling in skidded off the road while trying to save a dog and crashed into a roadside shed around 3am on Thursday at the Bopdev Ghat section.The Kondhwa police have identified the deceased as Aniket Jagadsih Kotgiwar (28) of Madhuvanti Society in Nanded City on Sinhagad Road. Aniket's friends Somnath Shete, Sunit Deshmukh, Shubham Sonawane and Deepak Pagare suffered injuries.Police said Aniket, an MBA, and his friends had gone to Yevalewadi for some work on Wednesday night. The accident occurred when they were returning to Pune in the early hours. When they reached Bopdev Ghat section, a dog suddenly came in front of the car. To save the dog, Aniket veered the car. But he lost control on the wheel and crashed into the shed, police said. Aniket and his friends were rushed to a nearby hospital, where Aniket succumbed to injuries. He is survived by his parents and a sister, police said.30-yr-old feared drownedShankar Mahadev Erande, a 30-year-old resident of Antulenagar in Kondhwa, is feared drowned after he jumped into a quarry filled with water for swimming on Thursday evening. The Pune fire brigade had carried out search operation in the quarry at Yevalewadi for two hours, but could not spot him. An officer of the Kondhwa police station said, "The fire brigade will resume the search operation on Friday morning to trace Erande."
Pune: City developer Hemant Gavande, who had lodged a police complaint against BJP leader Eknath Khadse and his family members in Bhosari MIDC land case, has written to chief minister Devendra Fadnavis seeking that terms of reference be framed for investigations in the case."Commissions set up under The Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952 are generally bound to their terms of reference. It is thus imperative that the terms of reference to be framed for the appointment of a commission against Khadse be wide enough to include all allegations of illegalities, improprieties and maladministration and to further probe violation of all laws, rules, regulations, whether civil or criminal in nature," states the letter to Fadnavis on Thursday.Gavande has suggested 19 terms of reference for the proposed commission, one of them being if Khadse, his wife Mandakini and son-in-law Girish Chaudhari were involved in corrupt practices and/or mal-administration by executing and registering the sale deed. He has suggested that specific reference be made to the violation and breach of applicable laws, rules and regulations, including the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, Indian Penal Code, 1860, Maharashtra Industrial Development Act, 1961, Income Tax Act, 1961, The Indian Registration Act, 1908 and rules framed thereunder.Gavande said the commission must also probe if Khadse was entitled to use information received by him in his official capacity for private/personal gains and if, by virtue of holding charge of the revenue department, he was entitled to hold special meetings in respect to acquisition of MIDC properties which are under the ministry of industries. He has also sought a probe into whether Mandakini had committed an offence in collusion with her husband under the provisions of I-T Act and the concerned registration rules by not furnishing the Permanent Account Number (PAN) of the vendors, particularly land-owner Sakina Najamuddin Ukani.The commission should also probe whether Khadse, his wife and son-in-law committed any illegality and/or offence by not deducting TDS at the applicable rate of 1%, thereby violating the provisions of the I-T Act, Gavande has stated.The letter suggests that it be probed if Khadse gained by illegally reflecting the value of the said transaction as Rs 3.75 crore instead of the ready reckoner value of Rs 31 crore. It says it should be determined whether Khadse abused his position by purchasing the property and whether he breached the oath of office taken by him as cabinet minister.
Raipur: A three-and-half-year-old kid at Balrampur district was branded with hot iron on his body parts by his parents to get him rid of sudden convulsions he suffered. Parents continued the harsh treatment under superstition for few days while the condition of child remained the same. Many parts in Chhattisgarh follow this superstition to wave off diseases from children and adults since decades only to add to the problem.Finally, when the condition worsened, parents were advised to visit the nearest hospital at neighbouring Jashpur district. The kid Ankit Kumar was taken to Jashpur district hospital where doctors were shocked to see his wounds not only on neck but other parts of the body. The kid hails from Kusmi block in Balrampur district and the parents had resorted to 'baiga' and massaged his body before inflicting burns. Pediatrician Dr RN Dubey at district hospital said that the child suffered from seizure disorder but when the burns were spotted, he inquired and was shocked to know that kids' own parents did this to him. "Though he has been discharged in a stable condition, convulsions might continue, which is why he has been referred to a better hospital at Ranchi," Dubey said. Reacting to the issue, doctor cum activist Dr Dinesh Mishra told TOI, "This belief is being followed mainly in remote areas since ages where people visit Baigas in case of any problem related to health, crops or property. While few use hot iron others use copper coins for branding leaving grievous injuries. They call it 'Aankna' and 'dagna' in Chhattisgarh and often use it to cure pneumonia, paralysis, stomach ache etc." Mainly prominent in tribal and backward regions, people find it very difficult to reach hospitals which are located in other villages or cities. "Nearly 200 newborns suffering from neonatal jaundice were branded with iron rods at Deobhog where people from 200 villages gathered. But the affect was so harsh that it killed many newborns due to the burns," Dr Mishra said.He added that problem is grave in interior regions of Surguja and Bastar where there is no medical aid available for villagers and it takes them days to reach the nearest hospital. In absence of any facility, they are forced to undergo superstitious treatment, which does no good. "Moreover, they trust more on an inexperienced local person than an educated doctor," he added.
Pune: The Pune rural police on Tuesday booked MIDC's Pune regional manager Ajit Deshmukh and three revenue officials for allegedly forging documents pertaining to the 76,400sqm land in Karegaon near Ranjangaon. A magisterial court in Shirur ordered the offence to be registered after it received a private complaint from businessman Bhujangrao Ogale. Besides Deshmukh, the others named in the complaint are tehsildar R R Pol, talathi S P Deshmukh and circle officer Dnyaneshwar Vedamblekar.On Thursday, the MIDC approached the Bombay high court, which directed the police not to file a chargesheet in the case without its permission. The court said that the police have to give 72 hours' prior notice (barring holidays) to Deshmukh in the event of arrest. It also directed the police to continue with the investigations in the case. Assistant inspector Sunil Kshirsagar of the Ranjangaon MIDC police station told TOI over the phone, "In his complaint to the court, Ogale said he had filed an application with the MIDC seeking a no-objection certificate (NOC) over the piece of land at Gat Number 443. Ogale claimed the MIDC replied to him saying there was no question of issuing an NOC as the land did not belong to the corporation."According to Kshirsagar, the complaint further said that since there were no legal hurdles, Ogale, Rohit Kamlakar and others purchased the land from the original land owners, following which the sub-registrar's office registered their names in the 7/12 extracts.The complaint stated that earlier this year, the MIDC dashed off a letter to the revenue department saying that the corporation was the legal owner of the land and that the names of Ogale, Kamlakar and others should be deleted from the 7/12 extracts.The complaint said that when Ogale and the other purchasers learnt that the revenue department was in the process of deleting their names from the property records and adding MIDC's name instead, Ogale filed a private criminal complaint in the Shirur court accusing MIDC and the revenue officials of forging documents to acquire the land. Subsequently, the court ordered the police to register a complaint against the officials of the MIDC and revenue department.Kshirsagar said the complaint has been registered under Sections 466, 467, 477 and 418 (forgery and cheating) of the Indian Penal Code.Cops still probing MIDC's allegationsPune: The Ranjangaon MIDC police are still inquiring into the charges levelled by the MIDC against Bhujangrao Ogale, Rohit Kamalakar, Kaushalya Musale, Anil Navale and others. MIDC regional officer Ajit Deshmukh had filed a complaint application with the Pune rural police on June 4 alleging that Ogale and the others had illegally occupied the corporation's land at Karegaon. Assistant inspector Sunil Kshirsagar of the Ranjangaon police station said on Thursday that the MIDC has stated in its complaint application that it had been approached by Ogale and others for an NOC over the piece of land. However, the MIDC refused the NOC, saying the land belonged to the corporation, the complaint application stated."We have not registered any offence against Kamalakar and others. We will take a call on any action based on the outcome of the inquiry," Kshirsgar said, adding that local talathi S P Deshmukh has also submitted a complaint application against the same people named by the MIDC.Told purchasers land is MIDC's: Divn commissionerPune: Divisional commissioner S Chockalingam told TOI on Thursday that the land purchasers had approached him seeking information about the plot. Chockalingam said he called for the land records from the MIDC and revenue officials. "The records showed that the land belonged to the MIDC and the same was conveyed to the purchasers," he said.
RANCHI: A threat letter to Bano BDO in Simdega Suleman Mundri has instilled terror in the block office premises. The letter sent by a suspected Maoist was received on Thursday by the BDO and shared with the higher authorities. Simdega is among the worst Maoist-hit districts in the state. The letter has been written by Rabindra Verma from Giridih who claims to be a member of the CPI Maoist organization. "I have received the letter from the BDO. It looks like a hoax letter," said Simdega DC Vijay Kumar Singh. The letter has asked the BDO to leave the block otherwise the BDO office would be bombed.
Rajkot: A 30-year-old man was injured by a lion in Vadnagar village of Kodinar taluka in Gir-Somnath district on Wednesday night. Raiya Rabari sustained injuries on his hand when the lion attacked him around 8.30pm. According to sources, Rabari was asleep at a farm on the outskirts of Vadnagar village. "The lion had preyed upon domestic animals in the village. But when people gathered, the distressed lion fled and while passing through the field attacked Rabari," said a forest official. Rabari, a native of Porbandar, has been admitted to government hospital for treatment.This is the seventh lion attack incident since March 19 in the revenue area surrounding Gir Sanctuary. Such attacks have claimed four lives and injured three persons in two districts of Amreli and Gir-Somnath. In some cases, lions have preyed on humans, which foresters say is unusual behaviour.Following the spate of attacks on humans by lions, forest officials have caged about a dozen lions found in the region and are analyzing their behaviour. In at least two incidents the lions had preyed on humans, and forest officials fear that one on more lions may have become man-eaters.
Rajkot: Three persons, including a husband-wife duo and their female neighbour, were electrocuted in Malpar village of Ghogha taluka in Bhavnagar on Thursday morning.The deceased were identified as Sukhdevsinh Gohil (45), his wife Induba (42) and their neighbour Madhuben Goswami (45). According to police, at around 9.30am Sukhdevsinh's mother Lalaba Gohil (65) was putting washed cloths for drying on a metal wire in the veranda. They said that electricity seemed to be passing through metal wire as it may have touched a domestic electricity line. As a result, Lalaba got electric shock and she called for help.Sukhdevsinh and his wife Induba rushed to save her but they got electrocuted. The couple's neighbour Madhuben, who attempted to save the three, also got electric shock and collapsed.Police said all four persons were rushed to civil hospital in Bhavnagar, where attending doctors declared Sukhdevsinh, Induba and Madhuben brought dead on arrival. However, Lalaba survived and is stated to be out of danger. The Gohil family is engaged in agriculture work in Malpar village.
Shillong: Border Security Force (BSF) troops deployed at Nongjuri in East Khasi Hills district seized 3.4 lakh Bangladeshi taka from a person trying to infiltrate into Indian territory on Tuesday. Meanwhile, BSF troops deployed at Gumaghat in South West Khasi Hills district seized wooden logs and bamboo worth Rs93,000 on Wednesday night, allegedly being smuggled from India to Bangladesh.
Rajkot: Rajkot's efforts to reduce the carbon emissions through green initiatives has got a further push with the United Nations choosing the city as one among the six in the world for "deep dive" consultations under its Building Efficiency Accelerator (BEA) partnership programme. BEA is a programme launched by the UN Sustainable Energy for All Initiative (SE4Al) and is aimed at doubling the rate of energy efficiency by 2030 through a network of 30 organizations that will provide the required expertise. The announcement was made at the Global Green Growth Forum (3GF) at Copenhagen two days ago. Rajkot will now get technical expertise to help reduction of 20-25 per cent in energy demand of the new as well as existing buildings, reduce pollution and save on energy bills. "The advisors will work directly with the concerned authorities to help prioritize and implement local building efficiency policies and projects," said an official.Besides Rajkot from India, other cities chosen for the deep dive consultations are Serbia capital Belgrade, Columbia's capital Bogota, Eskiehir in Turkey, Da Nang in Vietnam and Mexico City. Deep Dive is a global technique wherein a group or team quickly engages in a situation to solve a problem or generate ideas with brainstorming.Rajkot has around four lakh buildings of which nearly 30% are commercial and the rest residential. In 2004, the RMC had changed the building by-laws to make solar water heating system and rooftop rain water harvesting mandatory. Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra told TOI: "Rajkot will emerge as a learning laboratory for green buildings in the world. We have initiated various projects which are sustainable and energy efficient. By converting all street lights to LED, our energy bill is expected to reduce from Rs 7.95 crore per year to just Rs 3.33 crore. Through our solar plants, we are generating 500-600 units daily.""The buildings sector accounts for about one-third of global energy use and one-quarter of greenhouse gas emissions. Building efficiency is one of the most cost-effective ways a city can reduce its GHG emissions while benefitting the economy. For every $1 invested in efficiency, $2 are saved in new electricity generation and distribution costs," said the global agency in a statement.Sandrine Dixson-Decleve, chief partnership pfficer, SE4Al, said, "These cities and states have shown a commitment toward a more efficient future. Reducing the energy use and demand of buildings is the most cost-effective way for cities to reach a low-carbon future."
RANCHI: The legislative party meeting of the NDA comprising BJP and Ajsu party MLAs on Thursday focused on ensuring the attendance of the MLAs and their unity ahead of the Saturday Rajya Sabha polls. The dinner cum meet was hosted by tourism minister Amar Kumar Bauri at his residence where the MLAs were asked to remain present at the Project building on Friday for a presentation by the government in which the chief minister will be placing an account of the achievements of his government during the past one and half year. Apart from MLAs, the meeting was attended by both the candidates - Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and local businessman Mahesh Poddar, national general secretary of the party Bhupendra Yadav, Jharkhand in-charge Trivendra Singh Ravat, chief minister Raghubar Das and ministers in the state government. Das, during an informal chat with the MLAs, asked them to demonstrate discipline and solidarity during the Rajya Sabha election. The party also arranged for a mock drill for the first time for MLAs who will be exercising their franchise for electing a member to the Upper House for the first time. Chief whip of the party, Radha Krishna Kishore said that Rajya Sabha elections have their own importance and the party wanted all its MLAs to arrive here before the election. "We used the opportunity to explain to some of the first-timers, how to cast a vote so that they are not rejected," he said.Sources in the party said that the Friday presentation of the government on its work and achievements also has links with the Rajya Sabha polls. Party workers and MLAs have often expressed their disappointment with the government because some of the matters raised by party workers and MLAs are not given due importance by the government. "The entire government machinery is working towards the development of state which contains the issues often highlighted by the MLAs. In order to tackle the discontent among some of the MLAs, the government has planned to share its achievements with the members, one day ahead of the elections," said one of the senior party functionaries.
RANCHI: A heavy home season encompassing 24 international matches spelt good news for Ranchi. The BCCI announced on Thursday that the state capital and five other venues, including Rajkot, Visakhapatnam, Pune, Dharamsala and Indore, will host test matches between Team India and New Zealand , England and Australia.A new, energized Team India under Virat Kohli will renew their rivalry with Australia at the JSCA in February, 2017. However, Ranchi fans will miss catching a glimpse of city boy Mahendra Singh Dhoni in action. Mahi retired from test cricket in 2014. "We caught him in action during T20 matches, the IPL, Champions League T20 and ODIs. He was a star player," said Sourav Ghosh, a restaurateur who regularly attends matches at the JSCA.From budding cricketers to Ranji players and cricket enthusiasts, everyone hoped that Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) would be selected as a test venue. "A test venue means we will have better wickets to play throughout the year," said S P Gautam, wicket-keeper and opening batsman for Jharkhand's Ranji team. He added that better wickets would mean better preparation for domestic cricketers and an improved temperament. Though JSCA has hosted several one-day internationals, T20 and IPL matches since its inception in 2012, the state's cricket fraternity has been rooting for a test match. The anticipation grew after ICC gave JSCA the green signal to host test matches last year."Now, Jharkhand has hosted quite a few ODIs and T20s. With test matches scheduled to be played here, aspiring cricketers will benefit," said Muzaffar Ali, a government employee and cricket enthusiast.
RANCHI: The district police captain and residents are annoyed with officers in-charge (OCs) who have failed to control crime in the district. SP YS Ramesh on Thursday recommended the names of four non-performer OCs at the police headquarters, asking for stringent action against them. The SP has asked for the transfer of the non-performing police officers to other places. On Thursday, he also came down heavily on few police officers during a crime meeting.  Though the SP suspended an ASI and four constables of the patrolling party, the railway contractor's murder on June 4 again exposed the chinks in police patrolling. The two shooters who gunned down railway contractor C S Tiwary in his office in Railway colony, are still absconding.Police in the past 10 days have recorded four bike thefts, four burglaries in houses, two thefts from vehicles, three loots and chain snatching and a murder. The SP said ,"I have instructed OCs to perform or perish. The criminals should be nabbed soon. Recommendation has been sent to the police headquarter for taking action against four OCs as their performance is very poor," said SP.
Surat: Bhaskar Rawal, newly appointed pro-vice-chancellor (PVC) of Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU), took charge here on Thursday. Soon after taking charge for three years, Rawal was handed over additional charge of vice-chancellor as Dakshesh Thakar is currently abroad on a month's leave and is likely to return on June 16. Rawal, said, "My priority would be to improve admission process and examination system which directly affect students. The university may consider discontinuing centralized admission system." Activists of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) and his supporters shouted slogans in his favour.The office of pro-vice-chancellor (PVC) had been opened after five years. The office had remained locked as no PVC was appointed since 2011 after Dakshesh Thakar's appointment. Soon after his appointment as PVC, Thakar was elevated to vice-chancellor's (VC) post as his predecessor B A Prajapati was relieved.
Ranchi, June 10 (IANS) The opposition in Jharkhand is set to show a united front against the ruling BJP on saturday in a two-day "economic blockade" to denounce the government's domicile policy and in polling for two Rajya Sabha seats.      The opposition parties allege that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which rules the state in coalition with the All Jharkhand Students Union (AJSU), is suppressing the voice of the tribal and Moolvasi people and snatching the rights of the poorest.      "We have to restore the democratic process in the state. We cannot allow suppression of the voice of the people," state Congress president Sukhdeo Bhagat told reporters.      The BJP has also been accused of attempting to suborn the opposition MLAs by fielding two candidates for two Rajya Sabha seats from Jharkhand to be decided on Saturday even though it has the votes to bag only one seat.      On Thursday, an opposition parties' delegation led by Hemant Soren of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) met Governor Draupadi Murmu and informed her about their stand on the domicile policy and the Rajya Sabha polls.      The Raghubar Das government, on the other hand, has made heavy deployment of security forces to deal with the two-day economic blockade starting on Saturday, which has been called by the Jharkhand Vikas Morcha-Prajatantrik (JVM-P) of Babulal Marandi to protest against the domicile policy.      The economic blockade has been supported by the Congress, the JMM of Shibu Soren and other opposition parties which say that the domicile policy is against the interests of the tribal and Moolvasi people of the state.      The opposition parties' activists are expected on Saturday to block the main roads, railway tracks and major mines to focus attention on their demands.      The government had used stern measures against the May 14 shutdown organised by the opposition against the domicile policy, arresting close to 9000 people, including 10 legislators.      This time around, police are conducting mock drills here to deal with the protesters. An alert has been sounded for the security of the highways, railways and important places. The demonstrations will be videographed and surveyed through drones.      The ruling and opposition parties have also held meetings here to decide their strategies for the Rajya Sabha polls.      There are three candidates -- Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and Mahesh Poddar from the BJP and Basant Soren from the JMM -- for the two seats. So there is bitter fight for the vote of every MLA.      Jharkhand's legislators do not enjoy a clean record in voting in Rajya Sabha elections. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is still investigating charges of horse-trading in two such polls.      "We have the numbers to be able to ensure victory of our candidate with a large margin of votes," Hemant Soren Executive President of JMM -- who is also Basant Soren's brother -- told reporters.      To win a seat a candidate requires a minimum of 28 votes in the 81-member Jharkhand assembly.      The BJP and its ally AJSU together have 47 votes. They have also managed to bring Geeta Koda of Jai Bharat Samanta Party and Bhanu Pratap Sahi of Navjawan Sangarsh Morcha to their side.      This means that Naqvi will be able to sail through, but Poddar will be left with only about 19 votes.      On the side of the opposition, the JMM has 19, Congress seven and JVM(P) two votes.      Also supporting the opposition are Arup Chatterjee of the Marxist Co-ordination Committee (MCC) and Rajkumar Yadav of the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) Liberation.      The BJP can get both its candidates through only by poaching the opposition's MLAs.      The JMM and the Congress are wary of such attempts and are doing everything they can to keep their MLAs from crossing over to the other side.      --IANS      ns/kb/bg
Shimla: Two tourists were on Thursday killed and another injured when a tree, uprooted by a severe storm, fell on the tent in which they were sleeping in a nature park managed by the Himachal Pradesh government in Narkanda area here.The incident took place around 3.50am, about 65 km from here. Ashok Sidhu (45) and Rajesh Kumar (36) were killed on the spot. The duo hailed from Jalandhar and were employed by the Punjab Education department, police said.Eight others staying in adjoining tents escaped unhurt, while the injured, Gagan Kumar, was admitted to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital in Shimla, they said, adding there were eight more persons in the adjoining tents who escaped unhurt.The nature park, located in the lap of thick pine forests at an altitude of 9,000 feet, is managed by state forest corporation.Chief minister Virbhadra Singh has expressed grief over the incident and directed the forest minister to provide all help to the victims' family.Forest corporation vice-chairman Kewal Singh Pathania and managing director Lalit Mohan rushed to the spot and supervised the relief and rescue works."A severe storm hit Narkanda and surrounding areas in the wee hours and two Punjab tourists sleeping in the tent in the nature park were killed while another was injured and rushed to hospital," Pathania said.He said relief would be given to the next of the kin of the deceased as per the norms and the government would make arrangement for sending the bodies to the native places of the victims.Pathania said, "It was an accident. The tree was green but the storm was so severe that it could not withstand the pressure of high velocity winds that swept the area."Shimla and several other parts of Himachal Pradesh were hit by a storm, accompanied by intermittent rains, uprooting trees and disrupting power supply. The region received widespread rains and Tissa in Chamba district recorded 31 mm of rains, followed by Chhatarari-- 26 mm, Saloni and Gohar 25 mm, Dalhousie and Kumarsein 21mm, Amb 18 mm, Kufri 17 each mm, Mashobra 16 mm, Banjar and Mandi 14 mm, Shimla 12 mm, Rohru and Kahu 13 mm, Bajura 11mm, Kotkhai and Bangana 10 mm. The local MeT office has predicted rains and thunderstorm at many places across the state over the next six days.PTI
Shillong: Besides the usual fare that features on the list of coveted items for smuggling - cattle, timber, stones, cough syrup and psychotropic substances - another product has made an entry into the high priority list. The Indian 'beedi' has gained preference among smugglers who operate along the international border shared by Meghalaya and Bangladesh."The Border Security Force (BSF) troops deployed at Purnanagar, East Khasi Hills district of Meghalaya, apprehended a smuggler named Madhu Koch (57) of Purnanagar village, in a joint operation with Meghalaya Police. A total of 7,840 packets of beedis were recovered," a statement issued by the Meghalaya Frontier Headquarters of BSF said here on Thursday. The release added that the consignment was concealed by leaves and was to be handed over to associates in Bangladesh. BSF troops cordoned off the area after being tipped off and seized the consignment.The high demand of beedi in Bangladesh was said to have led to this.BSF has strengthened security on the international border and has been conducting special operations along the border to prevent illegal smuggling. "The BSF now, in coordination with the Border Guards Bangladesh, has been keeping an eye on the trafficking of psychotropic substances to Bangladesh," the statement said."The Border Security Force of Meghalaya Frontier has stepped up the vigil and intensified operations on the international border to check illegal infiltration/exfiltration and other crimes across the border," the statement further added.Interestingly, beedis made in Bangladesh are abundantly available at villages situated along the international border in Meghalaya.
Palanpur: Acting on a tip-off, authorities prevented child marriages of two sisters in Pujala vilage, some seven km from Mehsana, on Thursday. Hitesh Patel, social defence officer, Mehsana, said that Rekha (13) was to get married in the same village while her sister Sudha's (15) wedding was planning in a nearby village. The families belong to the Thakore community. "As soon as we received information about child marriages, a team swung into action and collected the marriage invitations and birth certificates of both the girls through various sources and their schools. The matter was brought to the notice of the Visnagar police," said Patel. The family had sent out marriage invitations and had even placed an order for a feast. "We explained the legal consequences of child marriage to the girls' parents," he added.
Ranchi: Girls outperformed boys with a pass percentage of 76.32% in the Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) intermediate arts examination, results of which were declared on Thursday. The overall pass percentage stood at 76.32%, considerably below 2015's 81.36%. The board, however, did not publish the list of state toppers. JAC data revealed that of the 1.85 lakh students who appeared for exam, 1.37 lakh passed. Around 8,825 students secured first division marks and 91,589 students secured second division.Around 79,192 boys appeared for the exam with 71.33% of them securing pass certificates. The results of annual intermediate science and commerce had been published on May 16. Lohardaga and Simdega districts recorded the highest pass percentages. Among girls in Lohardaga, it stood at 94.98% while in Gumla it stood at 94.63%.JAC chairman AK Prasad on Thursday said publishing the results of intermediate arts had become challenging, following the protests from para-teachers. "There were thousands of para teachers, gheraoing the JAC office on May 16. Our colleagues had gone on strike. There was an apprehension whether we can publish the results on time, for it could have had a far reaching effect on the students' careers," Prasad said at JAC headquarters in Namkum in Ranchi.
RANCHI: Doctors of a city based super-specialty hospital on Thursday successfully removed a 15 kg tumor from a 65 year old woman's lower abdomen. Parvati Barla, a resident of Kokar area in Ranchi, was given a new lease of life after the giant tumor was removed in a two-hour surgery. Barla's family members said the tumor had been slowly growing for more than 10 years till the lump began posing health problems. The growing tumour had restricted Barla's movement and confined her to bed. The sheer size and weight of the tumor had started affecting her internal organs such as kidneys and intestines."When her movement became completely restricted a month ago, we rushed her to three private hospitals in the city and the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims). Instead of admitting her for treatment, the hospitals asked us to take her back home," Barla's nephew said. With her condition slowly waning, the family moved Barla to a super-specialty hospital in Booty More on June 2. Dr Major Ramesh Das, surgeon at the Medica super-specialty hospital said, "The patient had a problem in her cardiac valve and a semi-functioning kidney. This made surgery complicated till she was stable". Das added, "The tumor in the ovary was compressing her intestines. Its huge size had triggered chances of the tumor bursting inside, which could have been fatal".Barla was wheeled in for surgery at 10:30 am on Thursday and was attended by a team of two surgeons and anaesthetists. She will be released from hospital in two days, the doctors said. As much as 20% of the ovarian diseases among women are caused by cysts, the doctors say. However, a surgery to remove a tumor of this weight was the first ever in Ranchi, the hospital claimed.
Shimla: Hamirpur district of Himachal Pradesh will soon get a first ever connecting railway line to be completed within a budget of 3,000 crore. Union ministry of railways have approved the project after the completion of Hamirpur railwayline survey in a period of two years.MP Hamirpur and Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha president Anurag Thakur on Thursday said that recently he had met Union railway minister Suresh Prabhu to discuss the project and request for necessary funds required for execution.He said the 50.25 km railway line will have four crossing stations, a junction in Una district and a terminal in Hamirpur. The total project cost will be around Rs 3,000 crore and investment will be scheduled for five years. "I am humbled with the support offered by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, railway minister Suresh Prabhu, minister of state for railways Manoj Sinha and all members of the board for getting the survey done expeditiously," he added.
CHENNAI: A teacher from Viluppuram district was suspended on Thursday after she burned her primary school students with camphor fire as a punishment for irregular attendance and poor academic performance.      The incident happened on Thursday morning in Paali Panchayath primary school near Ulundurpet. Vaijayanthi Mala, a 4th standard teacher, called 13 of her students and burned their feet.      The students were admitted to the Ulundurpettai government hospital on Friday morning for treatment. They had blisters on their feet.      After conducting an investigation, Vilupuram district Chief Education Officer immediately suspended the teacher and ordered a further investigation by the Education Department.      Read this story in Tamil      (Content courtesy: Tamil Samayam)
Shimla: Hamirpur district of Himachal Pradesh will soon get a first ever connecting railway line to be completed within a budget of 3,000 crore. Union ministry of railways have approved the project after the completion of Hamirpur railwayline survey in a period of two years. MP Hamirpur and Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha president Anurag Thakur on Thursday said that recently he had met Union railway minister Suresh Prabhu to discuss the project and request for necessary funds required for execution.He said the 50.25 km railway line will have four crossing stations, a junction in Una district and a terminal in Hamirpur. The total project cost will be around Rs 3,000 crore and investment will be scheduled for five years. "I am humbled with the support offered by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, railway minister Suresh Prabhu, minister of state for railways Manoj Sinha and all members of the board for getting the survey done expeditiously," he added.
RANCHI: Chief minister Raghubar Das on Thursday summoned Tata Steel MD, (India and South East Asia) T V Narendran and chairman, Tayo Rolls limited, Anand Sen at his residential office to discuss measures to bail out Tayo rolls from the present crisis. Tayo rolls, a subsidiary of the Tata Steel limited has closed down due to poor financial health and over 1,000 employees of the company are looking upto the state government for respite. Das asked Narendran to consider the matter and find out ways to ensure that the factory is not closed down permanently. Principal secretary to the chief minister Sanjay Kumar said that the discussion ended on a positive note. "After listening to both the parties patiently, the CM also spoke to the director of industries and expressed his willingness to ensure that the factory is not closed down," he said.The chief minister during his recent visit to Jamshedpur was approached by various labour unions and workers of Tayo Rolls limited with a representation that the government should save the families of thousands of employees and workers associated with the factory. Tata had acquired the Tayo Rolls almost a decade back and had been keenly managing its affairs till January this year. Sources said that Tata steel released a package of Rs300 crore earlier this year to meet the requirement of pending salary payment of employees and workers but thereafter refused to invest more money. The factory has already applied with the Bureau of Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR) for rescue. The matter is yet to be heard by BIFR. The factory also has a financial burden of around Rs200 crore in the form of electricity bills pending with the state electricity board.
Surat: The impostor, who introduced himself as an Indian Police Service (IPS) officer from National Investigation Agency (NIA), had impressed many middle-ranking police officials and had also acted on their behalf in some cases in the city, investigation revealed. A few police inspectors (PI) had offered their chair to Rajdeep Singh Kanda to sit when he visited the police stations. Kanda had managed to impress them with his looks, style of talking and a fake identity card that he carried. Posing as NIA officer, he had raised serious doubts about the intelligence of some city police officials too. Police sources informed that Kanda extorted Rs 7 lakh from property broker Kanti Kumbhani promising help in an application submitted against him at Katargam police station. Kanda called Kumbhani to that police station. He sat on police inspector's chair and demanded money from Kumbhani to help him strike compromise in the matter related to a financial dispute. Kanda took Rs 10,000 from a police inspector to spend on informers and from another officer to purchase a motorcycle. He used to tell policemen he has been assigned to build NIA office in city's Mota Varachha area. He first got in touch with one officer and through him widened his network. A number of retired policemen and intelligence officers operate in a mysterious manner. Kanda learnt these methods while staying in touch with a former intelligence official, sources said. Kanda's wife is principal of an English medium school in the city. The couple had shifted to Surat recently.
Manali: Unhappy with the condition of Kullu-Manali bypass state highway, Manali villagers on Thursday resorted to road-blocked and raised slogans against public works department (PWD) officials. They blocked highway at Naggar, Sarsei, Karjan and Jagatsukh villages. Villagers, under the banner of Vaamtat Sadak Sangharsh Samiti, have been on protest for the last few days. They say the highway is in bad condition for a long time and blamed the PWD officials of filling the potholes only by temporary patchwork.Sangharsh Samiti president Mohinder Singh Thakur said that people are suffering due to dilapidated condition of the road. "Upset with government apathy, villagers expressed their anger by demonstrating against government and PWD. Everybody wants honest and better road work," he said. PWD sub-divisional officer BC Negi said the blacktopping of the road will be completed soon. tnn
 Just a three minute halt at the dusty, noisy and congested Teen Hath Nath junction could possibly reduce three hours of your lifetime, say experts considering the toxic cloud created by hundreds of vehicles spewing smoke here.  Data collected by the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station (CAAQM) of the Thane Municipal Corporation's pollution control cell from January to May suggest that nitrogen dioxide and Respirable Suspended Particulate Matter (RSPM) at this junction is more than the maximum limit.  "The results of air pollution are alarming, the RSPM also which should be maximum 100 has been really high for past five months. It has gone up by 379%, the highest RSPM recorded was 479 micrograms per cubic meter (g/m3). Regular checks on vehicle's PUC, urging motorists to stop the vehicle engine are some of the steps taken by the traffic department to reduce pollution at the junction," said Manisha Pradhan, head of Pollution Control Department.  Agreeing to Pradhan, the experts from Paryavaran Dakshata Manch (PDM) said these small steps can help reduce the pollutants. "Many people do not understand the importance of PUC, they do not realise what impact these harmful gases emitted from the vehicles have on the environment. The other measures can be plantation of trees at such junctions; medium sized trees should be planted as they have a capacity to sustain poisonous gases," said Prasad Karnik, president of PDM.  The RTO has collected around Rs 4 crore from April 2015 to March 2016, against green tax from vehicles over 15 years old. "The green tax is collected every year from owners of vehicles which are over 15 years old. The government is supposed to use this money to fight pollution, however, nothing of that sort is seen so far," said Hemangini Patil, Dy Regional Transport Officer.  The officials from Western India Automobile Association claim that vehicles are not the sole reason for pollution and other causes also should be taken into consideration. "There are other mediums like chemical factories, burning of garbage; dust at construction sites which cause huge amount of air pollution. PUC should be made mandatory for all the vehicles and measures should be taken to reduce congestion on the junction," said Nitin Dossa of the Western India Automobile Association.  These gases which are inhaled by hundreds of individuals who pass through the junction, can suffer from serious health issues. "These gases emitted by the engines are harmful for a person's health. People can suffer from asthma, bronchitis, dust allergies, redness of eyes etc. Residents should compulsorily wear masks which would prevent them from suffering any serious diseases," said Dr Atul Gupte, physician.
Surat: Police arrested a 34-year-old man from Junagadh on Wednesday for his alleged involvement in a cheating case of Rs 87,000 registered against him at Varachha police station in 2002. The accused, formerly a diamond trader, changed his religion and had also got married leaving his first wife to escape from the long arm of the law, police investigation revealed. Police arrested Mahesh alias Moin alias Bapu Vallabh Bhalodi from Hanuman Temple Lane, Bapasitaram Madhi, Nandanvan Market, Junagadh. The accused, a native of Moviyata village in Gondal taluka of Rajkot district, had duped a diamond trader in association with two others of Rs 87,000.The accused had taken 43 carat rough diamonds from another trader saying he wanted to show them to his clients. The accused returned the packet to the trader after some time but when he checked, it had beads inside.Bhalodi escaped from the city leaving his wife and daughter behind and took shelter in a Muslim-dominated area of Junagadh. He developed relationship with a woman from that community and changed his religion. He became Moin Bapu and got married to the woman who bore him three children. He initially worked as a 'munjavar' at a dargah and later became a tempo driver."We received specific information about him after 14 years of crime and the accused who had changed his religion, name and got married for second time was arrested from Junagadh," said K K Gohil, police sub-inspector, absconders squad of city police.
Trichy: The Ariyalur district elementary educational officer has placed a headmistress of a panchayat union school under suspension for allegedly forcing students to clean toilets on the school premises. S Anathanarayanan issued the suspension order on Wednesday against headmaster of Salaikurichi panchayat union school Punithavathy following a barrage of complaints from the parents against him. Parents had earlier raised concern over poor coaching and no proper feedback over the performance of their children. Shocked to see their children cleaning the school premises, a few of the parents came to the school objecting to it. "We were irked after learning from our children that they were asked to clean the toilets as well," said Ramalingam a parent. Few more parents gathered at the school locked the school after taking away their children seeking action against the head master. Meanwhile, elementary education officer Vijayalakshmi promised for a departmental enquiry against Punithavathy, and asked the assistant headmaster of the school to take interim charge as headmaster.Promising a departmental enquiry against Punithavathy, she asked the assistant head master of the school Thirinisha Pal to take interim charge as head of the school. At the time when government schools are struggling to get students due to several reason, including that of poor quality of education, academicians say such incidents set a wrong precedence.
Srinagar (Uttarakhand), Jun 9 ()   LPG connections were today given to 100   women from   BPL families here to mark the launch in   Uttarakhand the   Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) which is aimed at replacing use of firewood with gas for cooking across the country. The scheme was launched by Minister of State for Petroleum and Natural Gas   Dharmendra Pradhan who said the Centre is working hard to alleviate hardships of poor women across the country especially those in the hills where collection of firewood is challenging and its use for cooking hazardous for health. The launch of the scheme in Uttarakhand is part of central government's plan to provide LPG connnections to five crore BPL families across the country by 2019. Addressing a gathering on the occasion, Pradhan said the scheme conceived by Prime Minister   Narendra Modi was a result of his commitment to alleviate the hardships of poor women especially those in the hills. "Women residing in hill areas find it difficult to procure wood for cooking. We have decided to alleviate their problems and lend them a helping hand, by providing them with LPG connections," he said. "Women and children suffer from health problems, because of use of firewood in cooking, thereby reducing their life spans. Today, as I hand over gas connections to these women, I can see tears of joy in their eyes," the minister said. Pradhan spoke of the Centre's plans to increase the number of distributorship from 239 to 400 and increase the capacity of the existing bottling plants in Uttarakhand. "It is a difficult task to open a distributorship in a hilly area but the government is determined to do its best to ensure that the women have clean fuel by creating a new category of distributorship called 'Durgam'," Pradhan said. The possibility of setting up small bottling plants in   Srinagar and other hilly locations is also being explored, he said. Among others present on the occasion were   BJP MPs from Uttarakhand B C Khanduri,   Bhagat Singh Koshyari, Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Mala Rajya Lakshmi Shah, Ajay Tamta and the Leader of Opposition in Uttarakhand Vidhan Sabha Ajay Bhatt. The Yojana, which was launched nationally by the Prime Minister at Ballia in Uttar Pradesh on May 1 this year, is to provide clean cooking fuel to BPL households across the country. The identification of BPL families will be made on Social Economic Caste Census (SECC)- 2011 data. Corr ALM    AKK
Surat: The intra-state air-connectivity in Gujarat is all set to get wings as the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has granted Air Operator Permit (AOP) to Ventura Airconnect Limited, an airline owned by the diamond barons of Surat, to commence commercial flight operations on Thursday.Ventura had won the tender from state government to launch the intra-state air connectivity and the contract was signed in the presence of CM Anandiben Patel at the AirShow in Ahmedabad on April 29. The airline, owned by diamond barons from Surat's Shree Ramkrishna Export (SRK), Shri Hari Krishna Export, Dharmanandan Diamonds and a realtor Lavji Badsha, had suspended its Surat-Bhavnagar operations due to a change in ownership and the need for its operating licence to be renewed in late 2015.The airline has proposed to connect Surat to Rajkot, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar and Ahmedabad to Surat, Bhuj, Kandla, Porbandar and Kesod. "It's been a long wait. The DGCA has finally granted us the operating licence, which means we can now start commercial operations in Gujarat. First, we will start the Surat-Bhavnagar and Surat-Rajkot as early as possible," said CEO of Ventura AirConnect, Kartikey Garasia.Garasia added, "We need to take permissions and complete other formalities like ground handling staff, etc., at the airports where we will fly to. This will take some days and then we will be announcing the dates for the start of the operations." The Madhya Pradesh-based Ventura AirConnect was bought by the diamond barons for Rs 20 crore in 2014. At present, the company's investment capital is around Rs 15 crore and net worth is around Rs 30 crore. The company presently owns two 9-seater Cessna (single turboprop) 208B Grand Caravans. It plans to add three more aircraft. It has already bought Diamond42 aircraft, which is expected to arrive from the US soon. Last year in January, Maritime Energy Heli Air Services Ltd (MehAir) had launched first-ever intra-state service with Gujarat State Aviation Infrastructure Company Limited (GUJSAIL) in the state from Ahmedabad, but within three months it had stopped the service after it failed to attract passengers.
Surat: If you are in Rander, you can't leave without relishing Rangooni paratha. Or for that matter, even at the Ramzan night markets at Chowk Bazaar and Zampa Bazaar, this Burmese delicacy is on everybody's mind when they visit to relish the Ramzan delicacies. However, this time around the food lovers will have to dig deeper in their pockets to get the taste of the famous paratha. Following the increase in the prices of raw chicken - at Rs 200 per kilogram - and the higher cost of vegetables including tomatoes, onion and chilly, the Burmese dish will coast 30% more. Last year, the Rangooni paratha with chicken filling was available for Rs 110 to Rs 150 per piece. This year, the prices have reached Rs 130 to Rs 200 per piece. "The raw material and chicken have become costly. Even the edible oil prices have gone up. We have no option but to hike prices. We have been selling Rangooni parathas since 40 years at the same place. Our customers come from as far as Bharuch, Vadodara, Ahmedabad, Bardoli, Vyara and Kamrej to relish the parathas," says Yusuf Bham of Mama Paratha.He added, "Apart from Ramzan month, we keep our shop open on Sundays. This was started last year, when our customers requested us to keep the shop open once a week, so that they could relish the Rangooni paratha."Mehul Bundela, an ardent lover of Rangooni paratha, said, "The taste of Rangooni paratha could be enjoyed only during Ramzan. Even if it is costly, I have bought three parathas for my family on the first day of Ramzan."
Ranchi: Three key opposition parties in the state met governor Droupadi Murmu on Thursday and sought her help to stop a possible horse-trading before the Rajya Sabha election on Saturday. Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, the main opposition, Congress and Jharkhand Vikas Morcha (Prajatantrik) are alleging horse-trading by BJP, which has fielded two candidates, one a national leader, for the two Rajya Sabha seats in Jharkhand. "BJP leaders are trying to influence MLAs of my party. It is an attempt to buy votes of the opposition party legislators," said JMM working president Hemant Soren, who led the delegation of leaders on Thursday. Former minister Subodh Kant Sahay said Congress MLAs "are being targeted by police on flimsy grounds" on the ruling party's orders. Two JMM legislators were invited to meet a top BJP leader recently, a JMM leader said on condition of anonymity. "Newly-elected Panki MLA Devendra Kumar Singh and the Barkagaon MLA are being harassed by police," said Congress state head Sukhdeo Bhagat.Congress and JVM-P are supporting JMM's candidate for the Rajya Sabha election Basant Soren. Congress's Alok Kumar Dubey said senior leader Ajay Maken will visit Jharkhand on Friday to look into the problem and keep leaders united before the election.Hundreds of JMM, JVM-P and Congress workers have been booked for taking out a torchlight rally on May 14. "The government sent an ailing police officer to control the crowd on May 14. The officer collapsed at the rally and later died. Police have arrested the JMM MLA from Dumri in this case," a memorandum submitted to the governor said."The government uses police to terrorize opposition leaders and does not care about democracy. An emergency situation prevails in the state," Soren said.
RANCHI: The district administration is making elaborate security arrangements to ensure the two-day economic blockade called by JVM (P) and other regional parties from June 11, to protest against the local resident policy, goes off peacefully. DC Rai Mahimapat Ray on Thursday held a meeting with police, CRPF, RPF, Bokaro Steel Plant authorities and other industries and directed them to maintain law and order. He also directed them to ensure the transportation of minerals is not disrupted. "Security forces will be deployed across sensitive areas and videography will be done. Police teams will ensure no untoward incidents take place," said DC. In Hazaribag, the administration has also started taking preventive measures to ensure the bandh does not disrupt normal life. DC Mukesh Kumar said, "We have already identified sensitive areas in Hazaribag and Barhi subdivision from where coal, sand and minerals are transported". Kumar also added that prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CRPC will be promulgated from June 10 to June 12, prohibiting the assemblage of more than five persons. "Action will be taken against those persons trying to violate prohibitory orders. Those who try to block railway tracks and national highways will be reprimanded. Additional security forces will be deployed to ensure coal movement is not restricted," said the DC.
 A 45-year-old truck driver, Jayaprakash Tiwari, was hammered to death by a transport operator and his aide in Kapurbawdi on Wednesday. Tiwari earlier worked as a driver with Parvati transport company owned by one Santosh Shukla but had quit the job following a altercation over money. Police said, on Wednesday morning Tiwari approached Shukla in his office and informed that he was jobless. Shukla had a grudge against Tiwari over the financial issue and decided to settle old scores and contacted an aide Saurabh Dubey to kill Tiwari. "Dubey attacked Tiwari using a hammer inside the office, while Shukla kept guard outside. The duo fled after killing Tiwari," cop said.  The duo have been arrested. —
Rajkot: A three-year-old lioness died after getting caught in a trap laid to catch small animals near Kathrota village that falls under the Girnar Wildlife Sanctuary of Junagadh district.According to sources, the incident occurred on June 7 night but came to light on Thursday.S D Tilala, range forest officer, North Range of Girnar Wildlife Sanctuary, said the carcass of the lioness was found at a farm owned by Rajesh Domadiya on the outskirts of Kathrota village. The place where the carcass was found falls under the sanctuary area."We have taken custody of the lioness carcass and sent it for post-mortem. Primarily it seems that someone had laid a trap to catch animals and ward them off from entering the fields," Tilala said. "We have lodged a complaint against unidentified persons under various sections of the Wildlife Protection Act and are probing the matter further," Tilala added.Search is on to identify the person who had laid the trap in the protected area."The issue is very sensitive as the trap was laid in the village that falls within sanctuary limits. There are over 40 lions in this sanctuary," said a forest official.
Surat: As a part of its energy saving initiative, Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) will replace over 90,000 street lights with LED bulbs in the next six months. There are around 1.15 lakh street lights in the city. This will save SMC 1.45 crore units of electricity resulting in saving of Rs 8.20 crore annually.With the help of Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL), an undertaking of ministry of power of central government, SMC has made a proposal under which the private partner will be invited to replace the tube lights on streets with energy efficient LED lights. This will be done through open tendering process. The private party will be getting difference in energy bill as his remuneration."This way, in few years SMC will have good quality street lights besides savings on energy costs," said an official from electrical department of SMC.The civic body may also adopt sharing pattern. Under which, some investment will be done by local body and some by a private partner. The decision on the project will be taken in coming days.
 The students of Vasant Vihar High School (VVHS) won the coveted Khalsa Cup Under-14 Cricket Tournament that was played in Kalyan recently.  The boys of VVHS defeated K C Gandhi school of Kalyan by 10 wickets in the finals. After chossing to bat first, the lads from K C Gandhi school put 84 runs on the board and lost all their wickets. This target was met with ease by VVHS. In fact, VVHS scored 86 runs for no loss.  "Winning two back-to-back tournaments shows that our boys are in form," said VVHS coach Kiran Salgaonkar.
RANCHI: Jharkhand BJP government's scheme to distribute two cows to women member of identified BPL families or self-help groups on 90% subsidy was lapped up by Muslim families in Ranchi. Large number of Muslim women turned up at the Shahid Maidan in Dhurwa on Thursday where, minister for Agriculture, cooperative, fisheries and dairy development Randhir Kumar Singh inaugurated a milk cattle fair of its own kind. The fair is to continue for next three years at the same venue where cattle traders have been invited to come up with cows of good variety on regular basis. Officials of the dairy directorate on the other hand have been directed to coordinate so that beneficiaries are not cheated by the traders and all norms laid down in the scheme are adhered to strictly.Singh said that even as the government is giving 90% subsidy on the price of cows, remaining 10% of the cost to be theoretically borne by the beneficiary is also being provided by Jharkhand Milk Federation in form of loan. "The ten percent cost of the cow, paid by the federation would be adjusted in 24 monthly instalments from the beneficiary when they start selling milk to the federation," he said. Singh clarified that this model was implemented to ensure that the beneficiaries do not sell off the cow and actually remain engage in earning a livelihood.Dairy development directorate has got the maximum rate of cows fixed by NABARD at Rs.45000 besides which the directorate would also provide Rs. 15,000 for development of shed and another Rs. 12000 in form of insurance for the cows for a period of three years. "The directorate is prepared to extend helping hand in providing training, vaccination to the animals and support about balanced cattle feed," assistant director dairy development Mukul Prasad said.Under the scheme every beneficiary would get the second cow after a gap of six months under the same financial model. Minister said that government plans to distribute 50,000 milk cattle during the five year period out of which mere 1000 have been distributed till date. "We have backlog of around 9000 cows of previous financial year and additional 10,000 cows to be distributed in the current financial year for which cattle traders and officials of the department would have to make additional effort," Singh said.One of the beneficiaries Mukhtar Ansari of Bargain village complained of being charged Rs.55,000 for one cow from the trader, reacting to which minister gave clear cut instruction that under no circumstances any cow would be sold for a price beyond Rs.45,000. "The maximum cap has been fixed by NABARD but traders and farmers are free to negotiate the price at a low level," he said asking the offiicals to guide the farmers in chosing the right variety of cow for right price based on the quantity of milk produced. The varieities of cow made available by traders on Thursday included Shaiwal, Jersy and friesien most of which produce 10 litres of milk on a average everyday.
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A high level committee deputed by the union government to study the possibilities of launching a rejuvenation plan for Pampa River has informed Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan that a report on how to rejuvenate the river by improving its water flow and curtailing its pollution would be submitted to the union government in two weeks.The central team led by Water Commission chief engineer J C Iyer that reached the state on early this week visited the Pampa river bank stretch from Triveni sangamam to Thannirmukkam. Chief Minister has told the team that Kerala government was expecting more technical support from the centre for the rejuvenation of the river. CM also asked the central team to schedule the rejuvanation action plan in such a way that it would not cause difficulties to pilgrims during Sabarimala season.The union government constituted the expert panel to submit a report on the possibility of implementing Pampa action plan to revitalise the river in the Ganga action plan model based on a memorandum in this regard submitted by BJP state president Kummanam Rajasekharan.BJP state president Kummanam Rajasekharan had earlier submitted a memorandum to union minister for water resources, Uma Bharathi to sanction an Rs 1000 crore Pampa action plan project to clean up and revitalise the river. The state water resources minister Mathew T Thomas said the government would ensure a coordinated performance of all department towards implementing the Pampa action plan.Apart from J C Iyer, the expert team was comprised of Central ground water board regional diretor V Kunjambu, Central water commission member C R Sanghve, National water conservation authority joint director Vinod Singh. MP Suresh Gopi and Veena George MLA also accompanied the team during their visit to Pampa river basin.
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Since the last seven years, a proposal to set upan Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) Academy in Kerala remains only on paper. Now, the IPR expertsand scientistshave submitted a representationto the new Kerala governmentto include IPRin the educational curriculum and to set up an IPR Academy.    "A representation had been submitted to the new state government and in particular to Education Minister Prof C Ravindranath," CSIR- National Institute of Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (NIIST) senior scientist- Tech transfer and IP management Praveen Raj told TOI. The 21st century belongs to the age of intellectual wealth which comprises of innovations, IPRs play a key role in encouraging industrial development and economic growth, and hence there is a growing need for generating awareness regarding IPRs. A large section of our scientific personnel are yet to be fully aware of the necessity of harnessing a strong IPR system to their best advantage, he said.    As a first step in this direction, IPR should be made a compulsory paper in degree courses as per the proposed curriculum revision, he said. IPR is already an optional subject for Law students in Kerala. Also the people should be made aware of the need to protect traditional knowledge from private appropriation. Research institutions and Universities should be trained to secure legal rights on their creations, he said.    Responding to that, Kerala State Council for Science, Technology & Environment (KSCSTE) executive vice-president and Science & Technology principal secretary Dr Suresh Das told TOI that including IPR in curriculum could help youngsters in becoming aware of the need for getting patents and IPR for innovations and its legalities. It would open up new job prospects for youngsters and the scientists too need to be trained on patents and IPR to protect their innovations better, he said.    CSIR- NIIST former director AD Damodarantold TOI that IP issues form a set of very rigorous Science & Technology data supported by Legal Claims to protect IP property rights in favour of the inventor for a period of 20 years. IP literacy is still very low even after two decades since we signed the Trade Related Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) at World Trade Organisation. "Introducing IP subject as part of the curricula in graduate or post graduate levels will certainly help to reduce the illiteracy. I strongly recommend it and I believe that in the State, S&T Department must handle this as a dedicated activity complimentary to the central agency. There is no need for a separate agency in the State," he said.    While, Praveen Raj said purpose of an IPR Academy will be to train all including school and college students, farmers, scientists, start-up innovators, small entrepreneurs and other stakeholders in the basics and legalities of IPR to practically protect their innovations and intellectual property. Existing Inter-University Centre for Intellectual Property Studies (IUCIPS) at Cochin University for Science & Technology is for higher studies and research in IPR that can churn out IPR experts and examiners, he said.    Former Law Minister and CPM state and central committee member M Vijayakumar told TOI that the proposal is expected to be taken forward by the new government. "The proposal to include it in educational curriculumand to set up an IPR Academy will be taken forward by the new government and a clear picture on its modalities will emerge soon," he said.
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Sixty-year-old Saraswathy L, who sells tea at a stall behind secretariat, was down with dengue fever twice in a short span. The sole bread winner of her family, Saraswathy had to shut her shop for nearly 40 days due to dengue. She believes that dengue struck her twice due the presence of the dumping yard opposite YMCA near secretariat which had been a breeding ground for mosquitoes. The corporation recently cleaned the area as part of the pre-monsoon drive. The area which was strewn with waste and was stinking is now planted with grass and cordoned off properly so as to make the public aware that waste should not be dumped there again. "We really hope that the area will remain clean," said Saraswathy. However, not all are as relieved as Saraswathy after the corporation's cleaning drive which was launched to remove waste from dumping yards in the city. A few metres away from this dumping yard is the NSS Working Women's Hostel, opposite to which is a heap of domestic, plastic and glass waste which has been untouched by the cooperation. The area reeks of decomposing food items and is infested with mosquitoes even during the daytime. Another waste dumping point, again not very far from the secretariat, is on the Gandhari Amman Kovil Road. This area was half cleaned and the waste sorted, but was never taken away. "People are not paying heed to the fact that the area has been cleaned and security guards deployed. Two nights ago, a person came on a bike and threw a packet of waste into the area over the head of the security guarding the place," says Madhusoodhanan, a security guard at the DHL Express outlet opposite to the area. The abandoned plot located near the Model School junction, a regular site for garbage disposal, also does not show any trace of the cleaning drive initiated by the corporation. Garbage heaps still remain there. Sreedharan, who runs a shop in the junction said, "The cleaning process was going on in full swing in the city for the past one month but the work undertaken here does not seem satisfactory". He also wished that surveillance cameras be installed with immediate effect in order to prevent further accumulation of waste. Local residents alleged that the corporation made pits to dispose of biodegradable waste but ignored non-biodegradable waste. Plastic bottles, rubber tyres, etc. could still be seen aplenty at the site. Though the corporation had plans to fill the land after the waste was removed, it was not been done. Another area which was cleaned was the Thampuranmukku Road adjacent to the General Hospital. The place was cleaned by Thampuranmukku Resident's Association but the cleanliness lasted only for two days as people started dumping waste there again. "Dumping of waste restarted from yesterday. Today, I saw two plastic bags full of waste and I am thinking the troubles of this area might never end. If they had planted some plants in this area and actually put a surveillance camera, people might actually not dump waste," said Swarnamma, the secretary of the YWCA working women hostel. Kunnukuzhi RC Junction was another area which was buried under ever increasing waste heap. This area had been cleaned and ornamental shrubs were planted as part of the drive. The area remains clean but the plants have been run over by the cars which are parked in this newly cleaned up space.Mayor V K Prasanth said that surveillance will be strengthened at dumping yards. "Plastic ban will come into effect from July 1. We hope there will be considerable difference in the release of plastic waste. A massive awareness campaign is planned from June 15 to 30 at major junctions to reduce, reuse and recycle plastic. We hope more decentralized waste management projects will reduce the habit of dumping waste," he said.
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Water supply to various places in the city that was disrupted on Wednesday evening, after two pumps installed at the water transmission centre at Aruvikkara got damaged, will be restored only by Saturday. Areas such as Thampanoor, Chalai, Kuriathy, Kamaleswaram, Manacaud, Sreevaraham, Konchiravila, Mukkolakkal, Ambalathara, Valiyatura, Muthathara, Beemapally, etc. started experiencing water supply disruption from Thursday morning. According to Kerala water authority (KWA) officials in Aruvikkara, there were two pumps of 250 hp each in the pump house that transmit around 36 million litres of water per day to the treatment plant at Vellayambalam. "One will be working while other will be kept as standby. However, on May 31, one pump got damaged and we replaced it with the standby pump. The motor of the standby was damaged on Wednesday. Earlier, mechanic who could repair the pump was available in Thiruvananthapuram. Now, the pumps had to be sent to Kottayam and Angamali for maintenance. One of the pumps is expected after rectification by Saturday. Supply will be normal by Saturday," said the official.The official added that the line from Aruvikkara to Vellayambalam is a gravity line and around 22 mld out of the normal 36 mld can reach the city by gravity flow without pump. "So there will be shortage, not complete disruption of water supply," he said. The proposal to replace the pump is under consideration of the KWA. The pumps were commissioned in the 70s and are in urgent need of replacement. KWA executive engineer Thomas Isaac said that tankers will be arranged to supply water to the affected areas till Saturday.
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Excise minister, T P Ramakrishnansaid on Thursday that awareness programmes would be strengthened against all sorts of substance abuse in Kerala.   The minister later flagged off 19 new vehicles allotted to the excise department at its headquarters in the capital.   "Every citizen has a responsibility to save society from substance abuse. The government's agenda is to influence people to give up substance abuse through effective campaigns. The government plans to save drug addicts through awareness initiatives and helping their families," he said.   Ramakrishnan said that incidents of substance abuse among students were reported even from various engineering and medical colleges in the state. Public should maintain a vigil and report the sale and use of illegal substances in their neighbourhood.   Excise commissioner Rishi Raj Singh presided over the function in which additional excise commissioner Jeevan Babu and joint commissioner Mohammed Siyad participated.
Vadodara: Dabhoi residents who had turned up to watch a magic show at a hall on Tuesday night had to run for their lives after a man opened fire in the air.Police have arrested the accused Natu Dholabhai, who opened fire and three others persons including the magician Ramesh Thori popularly known as Karan Jadugar. Investigators said that an old dispute between the magician's associates led tot he firing."Bipin Thori, who was working for Karan Jadugar, had some dispute with Dinesh Shyamlani. Dinesh was checking tickets at the counter when Bipin started arguing with him. Soon Bipin's accomplice Natu took out his revolver and fired in air," said N B Barot, Dabhoi police inspector. Natu fired four rounds in the air which led to panic among the locals. Dinesh also suffered head injuries after he was attacked by some unidentified person. Soon the mobs gathered at the spot and thrashed the magician's supporters. They also damaged several vehicles parked nearby. All the accused are residents of Himmatnagar and had been performing in Dabhoi for the last four days. Police said that no one was injured in the firing and they have seized two weapons from the accused. "It seems to be a case of some old dispute between the complainant Dinesh and Bipin that turned ugly on Tuesday night. Natu claimed that the weapons were licensed but we are ascertaining his claims. They will be produced before the court on Thursday," Rathod told TOI.
Thiruvananthapuram: By replacing Oommen Chandy with Ramesh Chennithala, nothing is going to change in the Congress in Kerala, said senior leader and former minister K K Ramachandran Master. "There is a feeling among people that both these leaders are corrupt. Allegations against Ramesh Chennithala will effectively be used by the LDF government to silence the opposition," said Ramachandran who was heckled by followers of Chandy and Chennithala while speaking at the two day KPCC camp executive that concluded on Monday. He held both these leaders were equally responsible for the failure and wanted both of them to own up to the defeat.He said similar experience were faced by a few other leaders too who dared to speak the truth in a forum where all leaders were present. "The defeat is worse than we expected. The number of seats fell down from 61 seats in 2001 to 22 now. It was 24 seats in 2006 and even while ruling the state last term, the Congress won only 38 seats and could finish only as the second largest party while CPM, though in the opposition, won 45 seats. It indicates a steady decline in the power of the party and warranted severe criticism," Ramachandran told TOI.The six time MLA and former Minister from Wayanad, Ramachandran Master is now a member of AICC and KPCC executive. Following the failure, he sent a letter to AICC president Sonia Gandhi suggesting the names of V D Satheesan, K Muraleedharan and Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan as the leaders of opposition. "Only a complete change of face can save the party from the disgrace it had suffered in West Bengal in the '70s. The party couldn't come back there and even this year we had to satisfy with a few seats gained with the help of CPM", he said.The veteran leader also lamented that youth congress and KSU had become a shadow of the forces it had been in the past and were not in a position to challenge the leadership."The group managers in the party had converted young leaders into their slaves. Only their slaves were given postings in the feeder organisations. If you don't toe the line of the group, you won't grow in the party. All these need to be changed," said Ramachandran.Though he accepts V M Sudheeran as a different and idealist leader, he is skeptical of Sudheeran making any magical change as there is lack of support from other leaders.
Vadodara: Railway employees across the country will observe strike from July 11 after the National Joint Council of Action of Joint Consultative Machinery of central government employees took the decision. J G Mahurkar, general secretary of Western Railway Mazdoor Sangh (WRMS) served strike notice to general manager of the Western Railway on Thursday. The unions are demanding modification of the 7th Pay Commission report, which according to them is disappointing. The demands include revision of minimum pay for central government employees to be revised from Rs 18,000 to Rs 26,000, revision of increment rate from three per cent to five per cent, restoration of all allowances stopped by the 7th pay commission and payment of house rent allowance at the rate of 30 per cent, 20 per cent and 10 per cent, which now has been reduced to 24 per cent, 16 per cent and eight per cent. The National Federation of Indian Railwaymen and All India Railwaymen Federation are also demanding removal of anomalies by the 6th Pay Commission.
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The number of vehicles seen parked outside the Trivandrum International Airport indicates the reluctance of people to shell out the amount charged by the Airport Authority of India (AAI) as parking fee. The parking fee was raised last year and also the time duration for free parking was reduced. Now, the AAI charges Rs 85 for parking inside the airport campus from 11 minutes up to two hours. After two hours, Rs 20 is charged per hour. The parking fee was raised from Rs 60 (after 20 minutes) to Rs 85 (after 10 minutes) following the awarding of new tender last year."It will take around 10 to 20 minutes for a passenger to leave the airport after the landing of an aircraft. Considering this, the duration for free parking should be increased and made 20 minutes as in the past or a new slab with lower tariff should be introduced for parking less than 30 minutes," said Vinod Kumar, who had to visit airport frequently to pick up or drop his relatives."It amounts to extortion to charge such a huge amount for parking for just 11 minutes. Our association had requested the former airport director to charge a fair amount for parking, but no steps have been taken yet. It will bring in more revenue for the airport. If the parking fee is reduced, more people will prefer to park inside the campus," said M S Venugopal, general secretary of Federation of Residents Associations of Thiruvananthapuram.There is space to park more than 400 cars in the parking area, but line of vehicles parked outside the airport during peak hours extents up to half a kilometre.According to a staff member at the agency which handles parking, the amount was fixed by the AAI while inviting tenders. Meanwhile, an official from commercial wing at the airport said that all airports under the AAI charge the same parking fees, which is decided at its headquarters in New Delhi. "The fee is decided after calculating the turnover from previous year and other maintenance charges. Also, the increased fee will help reduce the rush at the parking area," said the official.
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Neyyattinkara police have recorded the arrest of two people in connection with the drunken misadventure that cost the lives of four people at Avanamkuzhy on Wednesday night. Police identified the accused as Vijayakumar (47) of Karakkamandapam and Sunil Kumar (41) of Thirumala. Vijayakumar was the one, who was driving the Mahindra Jeep, which caused the accident. Police have booked Vijayakumar under section 304 of IPC for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and 185 of Motor Vehicles Act for driving under the influence of alcohol. Sunil Kumar was charged with section 188 of Motor vehicles Act that pertained to abetting drunken driving. Neyyattinkara circle inspector, G Santhosh Kumar said that search was on for two more people who had escaped from the jeep as soon as the vehicle came to a halt after causing the series of accidents. All four of them were mechanics attached to the Pappanamcode KSRTC depot. They were returning after attending a party in connection with the wedding of their colleague at Uchakkada near Balaramapuram. The CI also said that steps would be initiated to suspend the driving licence of Vijayakumar. The fatal accident occurred at Avanamkuzhy near Nellimoodu at 8:20pm on Wednesday. The jeep which lost control went on to hit down a bike and an autorickshaw. It came to a stop after ploughing into the verandah of a house on the roadside. Saseendran alias Sasi (45) of Kanjiramkulam, Yohannan alias Rajendran (48) of Pazhayakada, his sister Saroja (55) and Benedict alias Sudhakaran (60) of Nellimoodu were the deceased. Saseendran was riding the bike. He was going to buy a new pair of footwear for his wife. Yohannan was carrying Saroja and Benedict in his auto. Benedict hired the auto to go home after alighting bus at Balaramapuram. Yohannan picked up Saroja from Balaramapuram, where she was working as a saleswoman. The bodies were released to the relatives after conducting postmortem.
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Doctors of Medical College Hospital here saved an 18-year-old girl who was critically ill with tetanus, which is very rare these days. The girl, a native of Kayamkulam, was saved after she was given ventilator support for more than three weeks. Tetanus is usually caused by infection from wounds. Surprisingly, the girl was infected with bacterium Clostridium tetani without any injuries on her body. Doctors are of the opinion that the infection might have occurred through some other means. The disease began in the form of a mild toothache in the first week of May and later she started experiencing lock jaw, which is one of the major symptoms of tetanus along with suffocation and body pain. She was taken to a nearby hospital in Kayamkulam from where she was referred to Govt Dental College in Thiruvananthapuram. The doctors at the Dental College referred her to Govt Medical College Hospital after preliminary inspection. The girl was brought to the casualty on May 6 and doctors confirmed tetanus on the same day. Soon after getting admitted to the hospital, the girl was given ventilator support and life-saving drugs. She fully recovered after she was given ventilator support for 3 weeks. She was discharged on Thursday.The girl belonged to a poor family. Her father is a fisherman. She is the youngest of three children. The student, who is smart in her studies, had completed her class twelve exams when she was diagnosed.A team of doctors led by associate professor Dr M K Suresh treated her. Dr M K Suresh who headed the medical team said that tetanus infection is very rare these days due to increased awareness among people. Suresh feels that the age was one factor which helped the girl survive. "For older people, tetanus infection will be fatal," he said.
Trichy: Much has been said about the perils of taking selfies. Here we have a killer on the run for seven years landing behind bars after his selfie posted on Facebook gave himself away.In 2009, Mani, 45, and his wife came from abroad to Nanniyur in Ariyalur district to start a new life. Before long, their relationship soured as Mani started suspecting his wife's fidelity. In August 2009, during a fight he slit her throat in a fit of anger.Leaving his wife to die in apool of blood, Mani went into hiding. The police have since been clueless about his whereabouts.He relocated to Chennai, took on a new identity as Kandaswamy and worked as aserver in restaurants. For the past three years he had been working in a restaurant at Tondiarpet. Mani's parents had been given the impression that he died in Kerala where he used to go often for work.Recently one of his relatives in Ariyalur got the shock of his life when he saw a photo of Mani taken in the restaurant where he worked. Four of his relatives set out to investigate, went to the restaurant and found Mani working as a server."When Mani found his relatives in the restaurant, he tried to evade them. This confirmed their suspicions," said Ariyalur deputy superintendent of police P Muthukaruppan.The relatives promptly informed the local police and Mani was taken into custody. He was brought to Ariyalur on Wednesday and produced in the Ariyalur judicial magistrate court. He is now in the Trichy Central Prison.
Vadodara: Minister of state for tribal development, Kanti Gamit, raised many an eyebrow after he advised those unable to give up liquor to drink in moderation. Gamit said this addressing people of Antroli village of Chhota Udepur during the Shala Praveshotsav on Wednesday. He was speaking to the wards of children who were being admitted to the school.He said that liquor should be avoided and, if at all, consumed moderately. Gamit pointed out that, in contrast, many did not have any limits to their drinking. But he courted controversy when he said that those who could not give up should consume at the end of a tiring day or during celebrations moderately.Defending his speech, Gamit said that he had begun by giving the example of a standard eight girl who gave up food for three days as his father used to consume alcohol. "The father gave up drinking after this step by the girl," Gamit told TOI. "I told the gathering that the government spends a lot on their development and it was not justified to stay drunk when they were being cared for so much. I had only said that those elders who could not give up drinking at all should consume alcohol in moderation and that too occasionally," said Gamit. He added that unnecessary controversy was being created around the speech that intended to convey something quite on the contrary. "There are entire groups in the tribal areas that have given up alcohol altogether," he said.
Kochi/Thiruvananthapuram: Olympian Anju Bobby George may quit the office of Kerala State Sports Council president after she was "humiliated" by sports minister E P Jayarajan. The lone Indian to win a medal in World Athletics Championship, Anju said Jayarajan told her that she was clinging onto the KSSC president's post and since she being a Congress worker, the LDF government would have to rethink about her future as the sports council chief."This is the ultimate humiliation I have faced in my life. I have no political affiliation. We came to meet the minister with six months' progress card," she said. "The minister dubbed me and my team as corrupt," Anju said. KSSC vice-president Ibrahim Kutty had accompanied her to the secretariat to meet the minister.Anju, settled in Bengaluru, took over as KSSC president, an honorary post, in November last, when the UDF government was in power. Jayarajan denied Anju's allegation. "Our discussions were cordial and she left my office smiling," the minister said. Chief minister Vijayan, who reportedly had pacified Anju earlier, defended Jayarajan on Thursday. "The UDF government had granted undue benefits to Anju Bobby George which could not be justified.The minister questioned it and it cannot be termed as insult," he said. Vijayan said she had not made any complaint of insult. "The previous government had given benefits like air tickets for the sports council president which we feel should be avoided. This has been communicated to her,'' he told reporters.With the chief minister backing Jayarajan, Anju's days as state sports council president seemed to be numbered. "I will discuss with my team and decide on my future as KSSC president," clarified Anju, who at 39, had become the youngest to reach the coveted position.
 Shiv Sena corporator Sangita Patil was attacked with sharp weapons by nine goons who barged into her Wagle Estate office and hit her and her supporters on Thursday morning.  The accused beat her up with their fists and the holder of a sword. However, Patil escaped with minor injuries.  The corporator has allegedly claimed that her husband Manik Patil was behind the attack.  ''One of the accused has been identified as Santosh Pawar, who is said to be Manik's friend,'' said ACP Bajiroa Bhosle. Manik Patil was detained for questioning. —Shrutika Sukhi
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a tragic incident, a 30-year-old PG medical student, Dr Suma Lekshmi was killed after the car she was traveling in rammed a truck parked on the roadside at Attingal. Her husband Ajith T Vijayan, 31, and seven-month-old son Adinath survived the accident with minor injuries. The police have registered a case in this regard and launched a probe.According to the police, the accident occurred around 6:30am. The Maruti Alto car in which the family travelled rammed a truck that was parked beside the stretch of national highway near Government Industrial Training Institute (ITI), Attingal.It was alleged that the car strayed out of track and hit the truck after being hit by a tourist bus which was overtaking the car. However, the police said that they were yet to confirm this. Suma Lekshmi was pursuing post-graduation in anatomy wing of Thiruvananthapuram Medical College. Meanwhile, her family has decided to donate her eyes to two visually impaired people. They said that Suma always supported the cause of organ donation.
Vadodara: A campaign to feed the hungry launched by a city-based youngster has found takers in at least five other towns and cities, a year after a humble beginning in Vadodara. The 'Bhookh Mitao Campaign' initiated by 31-year-old Darshan Chandan is being replicated by good Samaritans in Adipur, Gandhidham, Nadiad, Halol and Mumbai."Our campaign went viral on social media and was picked up by people in Adipur, Gandhidham, Nadiad, Halol and Mumbai. People saw our work and got inspired to join the campaign," he said. On Saturday, the team will launch a website and a mobile application to celebrate its first anniversary. "Those wanting to register as volunteers or donate groceries can contact us on the website or through the app," said Heena Raval, one of the volunteers."In fact, we are now regularly providing food to nearly 1,000 children from slum areas of the city. The campaign has picked up very well and we now have a large team of volunteers. We have opened centres in six different areas including Samta, Fatehgunj, Akota, Nizampura, Chhani and Waghodia where we feed children on Sunday," Chandan told TOI. Nearly 400 volunteers including a large team of youngsters have joined the campaign to fight hunger among the slum kids. "We don't accept any cash as donation. Donors are asked to provide groceries or other items," Chandan added.The campaign is now moving on from providing just food to educating the poor slum children and developing their personality. "Every Sunday, before offering the lunch, we organize several activities like painting, music and dance. We also take them out for movies and joyrides. And soon, our focus will be on sending as many slum kids as possible to schools," Chandan added. Chandan, who is into shipping business, had launched the campaign on June 7 last year with just six volunteers.
Kannur: The escalator in Kannur railway station would be functional in July, while the lift would be operational by Onam, said P K Sreemathi, MP, after a review meeting of various development projects of the Railways in the district on Thursday.The works of the lift and the escalator are fast progressing and it would become operational very soon, she said after the meeting.Also, the dormitory facility with ten beds for women would be set up in the existing building of the Kannur railway station, she said quoting the railway officials. Once the new building is constructed, the facility would be expanded with twenty beds.The officials also reviewed the development works in other stations in the district.After visiting the site of the railway over bridge in Pappinissery, where the ongoing work has affected the vehicular traffic, they said steps would be taken to facilitate the traffic of auto rickshaws and motor bikes within two weeks. The work of the ROB, which started long back, is yet to be completed and the road has been blocked ever since.Azhikode MLA K M Shaji, Kannur mayor E P Latha and other local body members also visited the site, along with the railway officials and the MP.
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Speaking while inaugurating a public reception organized for spiritual leader and author Sri M at the Senate Hall here on Thursday, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said, "Spirituality is not a trait found in all people who proclaim to be secular. Many link spirituality with organized religion. These factors differentiate Sri M from others". The function was organized by Manav Ekta Mission, as a conclusion to 'Walk of Hope', a walk for peace and harmony conducted by Manav Ekta Mission from Kanyakumari to Kashmir. The walk flagged off from Kanyakumari on 12 January 2015 covered, 11 states, 84 districts and around 7,500km in 474 days.Complementing the initiative, Pinarayi Vijayan said, "While, other people speak about after life and heaven, Sri M spoke only about the good deeds to be done in this life. He has shown the light with his message of peace and brotherhood to a generation groping in the dark". Sri M was felicitated by CM with a golden shawl. Former CM Oommen Chandy who was the guest of honour said that Sri M is a person who puts his message into practice for the good of others, while MLA O Rajagopal said that the reception he received at different places across the country sans any barrier of language and culture points to the impact of his noble initiative.Sri M in his address said that his walk was his message. "The message I want to convey was presented through the walk. My walk is my talk. I hope my message of peace and harmony had reached many people. I am thankful to all those who accompanied me throughout this journey despite various issues we had to encounter," he ssaid.
Vadodara: A Jharkhand resident who cheated people by posing as a bank employee was arrested by the detection of crime branch (DCB) sleuths.The crime branch arrested Santosh Mahato from Dhanbad in Jharkhand and brought him to the city on Thursday. Santosh is a member of the gang that calls up people posing as bank employees and gets confidential details of their accounts.The police had swung into action some months ago when Ramesh Rathwa and some others registered a complaint stating that some unidentified persons made them phone calls and introduced themselves as bank employees. The accused then took ATM PIN of the complainants and siphoned Rs 73,900 from their bank accounts."While investigating the case we learnt that all the siphoned money was deposited in a bank account. We got the bank account number that was registered in the name of Santosh. Further investigations revealed that nearly Rs 11.29 lakh was deposited in Santosh's bank account between January 2015 and June 2016," crime branch officials said. The cops said that the amount of deposit in the bank account shows that gang may have duped many people across the country. "Santosh told us that he had given the management of his bank account to one Babloo Das. He claimed that Das used to pose as bank employee and make phone calls to people. But we suspect that Santosh too used to make such calls," said cybercrime cell police sub-inspector, A D Gamit. Santosh said during the interrogation that he used to keep 10 per cent of the siphoned cash and kept the rest for Babloo. "There are many gangs in Jamtara district of Jharkhand that cheat people by posing as bank employees. They have learnt it from some gangs in West Bengal. We had arrested a person from Jharkhand in a similar case some months ago," Gamit told TOI.Investigation by cyber crime cell last year had revealed that the fraudsters operate from open fields and shanties in remote villages of Jamtara district of Jharkhand.Youngsters between 15 to 25 years of age operate the scam just like an organized call centre, but in the open. All the operatives are spread out at different places and work at their convenience. They are even trained in speaking English to convince the people targeted.
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayansaid on Thursday that the present financial position of Kerala was precarious. Vijayan said that the state's debts were nearly Rs 1.54 lakh crore and several long-term and short-term projects for resource mobilization will be announced soon to tide over the crisis. The govt will also launch projects to ensure basic infrastructure development.   "We cannot say the future looks bleak as the government is trying to overcome the crisis. The financial crisis is severe and comptroller and auditor general had reported on this matter," said the chief minister at a media briefing at the Thiruvananthapuram Press Club.   Reports said that contractors have to be paid a sum of Rs 3,000 crore and pension arrears worth Rs 1,230 crore were pending, in addition to the one disbursed by the social justice department. Vijayan said that resource mobilization holds the key and the government will seek new means to raise funds.   "There should be some focus while developing basic infrastructural facilities like road, power and land. There would be some sort of resistance when the government attempts development projects and we will see to it that all such issues are amicably settled," he said.   The chief minister added that the government will create a state civil service cadre and bring out a common policy on transfer norms for government employees.   "All the government officials have been asked to settle grievances and complaints within 30 days," Vijayan said.   Referring to the complaints on mass transfer that happened after the LDF government assumed office, the chief minister said that there had been 'denial of justice' in transfers during the previous government's tenure and the matter was being rectified now.   The chief minister also rejected the UDF's demand for an all-party meeting on Mullaperiyar saying that there was no new development that warranted a meeting.   "The government is of the view that a new dam can be constructed only with the support of Tamil Nadu and the Centre. Hence, we are not ready for a confrontation with Tamil Nadu," he said.
Vadodara: Unidentified persons broke open an ATM in the Godhra town of Panchmahal district to steal cash amounting to over Rs six lakh from it. The accused used a cutter to open the vault of the ATM and conduct the theft. The incident came to light early on Wednesday morning when the ATM checker Hemant Patel got an email on his cellular phone stating that the ATM at UCO Bank on the Dahod Road was not working. Patel informed his seniors who in turn informed the assistant manager of the bank Ashish Kotiya regarding the incident.It came to light that the accused had used a cutter to open the ATM and had then removed three cassettes containing cash in it. One of the cassettes had Rs 500 notes in it, the second had Rs 100 notes in it while the third was empty. The total amount of cash stolen by the accused amounted to Rs 6,43,300. Sources said that the bank opened at 9.30am and closed at 6.30pm. The ATM of the bank did not have any security guard and its door was open round-the-clock.The accused broke the CCTV cameras inside the ATM and severed their connections after entering it. The footage available from the CCTV cameras shows the accused entering the ATM wearing caps with their faces covered. No footage of them cutting open the ATM was available from the cameras as they were damaged before that. Investigations in the case have been handed over to the local crime branch of Panchmahal police.
Vadodara: A 24-year-old student of chartered accountancy (CA) was duped by two unidentified persons when he went to a bank in Panigate on Wednesday. Kamal Malani, a resident of Waghodia Road lost Rs 25,000 after the accused diverted his attention and fled with the cash. Malani told the police that the accused approached him when he was standing in a queue in Bank of Baroda to deposit cash. The duo asked Malani to help them fill a form for depositing the money in the bank. The accused took Malani outside the bank and then diverted his attention. One of them siphoned the cash Malani was carrying and the duo then fled in an auto rickshaw.
Vadodara: When the new batch of students get enrolled at M S University's Faculty of Technology and Engineering (FTE), the poor amongst them won't benefit from a library that was run by a teacher using books donated by previous students. The faculty member belonging to scheduled tribe used to provide reading materials like books free to poor students. Petty politics is taking toll on acts of kindness at the university once known for its egalitarian views. It has come to light that Nikul Patel, a mechanical engineering department teacher, was recently forced to shut down the library which he had started for students hailing from weaker sections of the society in 2010. Patel used to collect books from graduates who passed out from the faculty and later distribute it to poor students based on their requirements. But on a complaint registered by a student leader, a committee formed by FTE dean has instructed Patel to stop the activity. "As a student, I used to benefit from a similar system provided at Pujya Thakkarbapa Chhatralaya, a government hostel, where books were provided to students against token money. The students could use those books and later deposit it back in the hostel library at the end of every semester or year," said Patel, recollecting his graduation days between 1996 and 2000. Inspired by this, Patel with the permission of the then dean had started the library where passing out students donated the books for the incoming students. "Within five years, I had a collection of around 450 books and nearly 135 students from poor families benefited from this," said Patel, who ran the library under 'Mentorship programme for weaker sections of society' which included counselling and guidance to students on every Thursday. But in September last when he registered a complaint against a student leader for alleged misbehaviour in his classroom, the student leader too lodged a complaint accused him of "anti-student activity and caste-based approach towards students." "A three member committee during its meeting asked me to stop all student related activities and hence I have discontinued the library," said Patel. When contacted FTE's present dean professor S S Bhattacharya, who was part of the committee, told TOI that he does remember the exact details of the case. Committee's convener professor Bhuvan Parekh on the other hand denied having issued any such instructions. "We as committee had only asked him to take department head and dean into confidence for running any activity. We had never told him to stop the library," said Parekh.
Vadodara: In a first, M S University has launched a certificate course on green buildings. Admissions for the short term programme that will be run by the university's Centre for Lifelong Learning and Extension (CLLE) have kicked off. "No other educational institute has so far launched a programme on green buildings in the state," said university engineer N K Ojha. MSU's syndicate body recently gave its approval to start the certificate course. Graduates are eligible for admission in this certificate course which be held on weekdays for three hours. "Curriculum for the six-month programme is divided into two module which includes theory and practical. Curriculum has been designed in a manner that highlights the essentials of a smart city," said Ojha, adding that various green building projects are going on in the university campus. Students will be given case studies on any of the structures for better understanding. At present, a batch of 30 students will be enrolled for the programme. Ojha, who will be one of the teaching faculties said, "The programme would cover teaching in various areas such as sustainable designing, water conservation, energy conservation, material and resources, indoor environment quality and innovation and design process."Ojha added that the certificate course is a platform for graduates especially architects and civil engineers to grow in their career. "Now, it has become inevitable to incorporate green concept in the field of construction and designing," he said. Last date for online registration for admission in the course is June 15.
Vadodara: A man died near Chikhodara on the national highway in Anand district after he rammed into a parked police patrol vehicle with his motorcycle. While the accident took place on Wednesday evening, the man succumbed to his injuries late in the night on the same day. The accident took place when the Bolero car of the Anand rural police station was parked on the service road of the national highway. Abdul Motaji Rathod (55) a resident of Rahimnagar in Anand allegedly came from the wrong side on his motorcycle and collided with the stationary patrol car at around 5.15pm. The policeman in the patrol vehicle called an ambulance and Rathod was rushed to a hospital at Karamsad for treatment where he died late in the night during treatment. An offence was registered by the driver of the police vehicle Thavraji Punaji at the Anand rural police station.
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Goon Gundukad Sabu has gone absconding as the probe into a gangland attack case is proceeding. On Wednesday, the cops had arrested seven men, who were believed to be assigned by Sabu to attack Anand alias Ananth, a member of his rival gang. "We are yet to confirm his involvement in the case but his alleged role in the crime is being probed," said Medical College sub-inspector S Bijoy. Also, the men arrested on Wednesday remained tight-lipped about Sabu's involvement in the crime. "The victim, though out of danger, still remains in ICU and we could not record his statement yet. It was his friends, who were with him when attacked, who said Sabu was also involved," the SI added. City police commissioner G Sparjan Kumar said that even though Sabu was yet to be arraigned as an accused in the case, police were seriously pursuing him. "We are trying to know his involvement by examining the call detail records of his phone," the commissioner said. Ananthu and gang had allegedly attacked Sabu and friends on May 31 near Barton Hill Colony. Tuesday night's attack was suspected to be an act of retaliation.
Vadodara: While the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) is keen on razing the Ramdevnagar slums in the Gotri area, it is an irony that this very locality was developed as a pilot project for slum upgrading two decades ago. The residents had even contributed to the development that took place with aid from United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO). The Ramdevnagar slums have been given a notice for demolition as the slums are within 40meters of the Gotri pond. The VMC claims that the slums have been polluting the pond that the civic body plans to rejuvenate. The residents, however, point out that the slums were already 'developed' with drainage and water lines as well as power connections along with roads under the project in which UNESCO, Vadodara-based NGO Baroda Citizen Council and VMC were partners. They claim that the land was also grazing land referred to as 'gauchar' and not that owned by the VMC. Amit Tiwari, a resident of Ramdevnagar, said that people had paid Rs 3,500 towards infrastructure for development in the area. "Believing that they would keep staying here, some people saved or took loans and improved the quality of their houses. Now, a bleak future stares at them," said Tiwari. Mehul Upadhyay, an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) worker, who has been helping the slum dwellers, said that a memorandum of understanding was also signed for the project in 1995 and a formal unveiling of a plaque declaring the slums as developed was conducted in 1999 by the then mayor Bharati Vyas. "There are over 800 houses in the area. There is no need to raze the entire slum," said Upadhyay. VMC commissioner HS Patel said that when the slum pocket was developed, laws regarding conservation of water bodies and environment protection were not very strict. "The situation today has changed significantly. Besides, we will not leave the residents homeless and give them alternative housing," he said. Patel said that some houses of the slum pocket are right on the edge of the pond. The VMC believes that the slums are a major reason of pollution in the Gotri pond that it wants to develop.
VADODARA: A woman was arrested for snatching gold chain of another woman in Gotri area of the city on Thursday morning. The incident occurred when Anusuya Prajapati had gone to the vegetable market with her daughter. When she was buying the vegetables, two women came from behind and kept an eye on Prajapati.One of them then snatched the gold chain Prajapati was wearing. But before the women could slip away, Prajapati's daughter caught one of them. The woman has been identified as Sunita Sattey, a resident of slums in Surat. The other woman, who was carrying a baby, managed to flee from the spot with the gold chain worth Rs 45,000. The police said that three more women of their gang may be moving around in the city.The cops have recovered one mobile phone and five new dresses from Sunita.
Surat: As the jawans of Border Security Force (BSF) manning our borders have been battling scorching heat with not even pedestal fans at their disposal, over 100 diamond traders including diamond barons and small merchants, from Surat have decided to donate life-saving items including sunglasses, water coolers, fans, EGC machines and blankets to them.Around 11,000 UV protector sunglasses, 10 RO water system having capacity of 500 litres, 7,000 blankets, ambulance, medical laboratory equipments and around 10 oxygen cylinders will be donated by the diamantaires during a function to be held on June 19 at the outer post of the India-Pakistan border near Banaskantha on June 19. Industry sources said that union minister of state for home, Haribhai Chaudhary, who is an MP from Banaskantha, had invited some diamond industry leaders to discuss about donations to BSF jawans posted on the border. All traders hailing from Banaskantha and having their set-up in Surat, agreed to Chaudhary's appeal. Gujarat region chairman of Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC), Dinesh Navadiya told TOI, "Each one of the 100 diamantaires have been contributing their bit for our jawans posted on the border. It is our prerogative to help the jawans who protect us from the enemies. All the donors will be going to Banaskantha on June 19 to give away life-saving items to the jawans." Asked about the expense, Navadiya said, "We are yet to calculate the exact amount to be spent for the jawans. We we are also working for providing houses free-of-cost to the widows of the martyrs in Banaskantha and other places in Gujarat."
Vadodara: Two groups belonging to different communities were involved in rioting in Vejalpur near Godhra on Thursday night. Minor stone pelting also took place during the incident. The clash took place over a row regarding parking between a shopkeeper and a two-wheeler rider. The two-wheeler rider had parked his vehicle in front of the shop and the shopkeeper objected to this. The duo was involved in an argument that snowballed into fisticuffs between two groups and eventually rioting. Panchmahal superintendent of police R V Asari said only some stones were pelted and the injuries to a few were minor in nature. "The local police and I were patrolling near the area and rushed to the spot. We brought the situation under control immediately," he said. Six people injured in the incident were brought to Godhra Civil Hospital for treatment. Asari said while the shopkeeper had come forward to file an offence regarding the incident, nobody from the other side had approached the police with a complaint so far. Security was beefed up at Vejalpur to prevent any escalation. The police had not made any arrests regarding the incident till late on Thursday night.
Varanasi: Continuing the anti-encroachment drive, the district administration and Varanasi Municipal Corporation (VMC) carried out the joint operation in two of the five zones on Thursday. The drive was carried out from Tehsil Sadar to Gilat Bazaar in Varunapar zone while in Dashaswamedh zone, the drive was carried out from Chittaranjan Park to Girijaghar crossing. In Varunapar region, over 100 encroachments, including temporary ramps and steps over the drains were bulldozed. Another drive was carried out in Dashaswamedh zone. The entire stretch from Chittaranjan park to Girijaghar was covered. Around three dozen illegal structures and kiosks were removed.
Varanasi: Ensuring justice for the most backward classes of UP will be the prime task for the BJP after coming to power in UP in 2017, said Union home minister and former BJP president Rajnath Singh. "While the quota benefit for OBCs is being grabbed by a limited section in the state, the most backward class is deprived of its rights," said the Union minister while addressing BJP's 'Samajik Nyaya Sammelan' at the Railway ground in Mau on Thursday."After coming to power in the state in 2017, the BJP would implement the report of the standing committee on social justice," he claimed.Rajnath targeted the SP government in UP on the issue of Pradhanmantri Kisan Bima Yojana, alleging "the state government had not taken this insurance scheme for farmers seriously despite the fact that BJP-led NDA government at the Centre had introduced it for the benefit of farmers and to increase their income". He also alleged that though huge funds were allocated for the farmers against the loss of their crops, the state government has failed to distribute it among the needy.Mentioning Mathura's bloody clash that claimed 29 lives, the home minister also criticized the SP government for its alleged failure on the law and order front. He asked the people to recall the regimes of Kalyan Singh and his own government in state in this regard.Rajnath also praised the working of the Central government and gave all credit to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for "improving the image of the country globally". He alleged, "During Congress-led UPA government regime new records of scams and corrupt practices were being set and ministers were going behind bars. But, the ministers of Modi cabinet are going among the countrymen to give report card of their performances." He advised other political parties to take lessons on good governance from the Modi government.Earlier, during his address, union minister of state for railways Manoj Sinha disclosed the number of projects launched for improving rail network and services in east UP.
SHIMLA: Two persons died today as an uprooted tree fell on their tent during a storm while they were camping at a nature Park in Narkandaforests, 65 km from here even as rains lashed many areas of Himachal Pradesh.   Eight others staying in adjoining tents escaped unhurt, an official said, adding the deceased hailed from Jalandharand were employees of Punjabeducation department.   Shimla and several other parts of Himachal Pradesh were hit by a storm, accompanied by intermittent rains, uprooting trees and disrupting power supply.   The maximum day temperatures dropped by few notches after rains. Mercury dipped to 32.8 degrees C at Una in Shivalikfoothill after 40 mm of rains while Bhuntarwas hottest during the day with a high of 33.7 degrees C, followed by Nahan32.3 degrees C, Dharamshala31.8 degrees C, Sundernagar31.4 degrees C, Solan 24.5 degrees C, Manali and Kalpa24 degrees C and SHIMLA22.   The region received widespread rains and Tissain Chambadistrict recorded 31 mm of rains, followed by Chhatarari-- 26 mm, Saloniand Gohar25 mm, Dalhousieand Kumarsein21mm, Amb 18 mm, Kufri17 each mm, Mashobra 16 mm, Banjar and Mandi14 mm, Shimla 12 mm, Rohru and Kahu 13 mm, Bajura11mm, Kotkhaiand Bangana10 mm.   Minimum temperatures close to normal and Kalpa was coldest in the region with a low of 9.4 degrees C, followed by Manali 9.8 degrees C, Keylong 12.1 degrees C, Shimla 13.3 degrees C, Dharamsala 16.4 degrees C, Bhuntar 17.0 degrees C, Palampur 18.0 degrees C, Solan 18.4 degrees C, Sundernagar 19.1 degrees C, Una 20.7 degrees C, Nahan 21.7 degrees C.   The local MeT office has predicted rains and thunderstorm at many places across the state over the next six days.
Trichy: Two DMDK councillors of the Thottiyam panchayat union climbed atop the union office building and threatening to commit suicide by self-immolation, on Thursday.The councillors demanded action against chairman of the panchayat union Sethupathy, who is also the brother of the former AIADMK minister N R Sivapathy, for allegedly swindling public money to the tune of 7 crore. Upset over inaction to their complaints against the chairman, DMDK councillors P Ananavi and M Ravi Kumar climbed the union office building with two cans of petrol at 11am and threatened to immolate themselves. Police personnel spoke to the agitating councillors through public address system and persuaded them to climb down. The councillors budged after officials assured to initiate action against the chairman. Later speaking to TOI, Ananavi said, "We gave up after no action was taken on our complaints against the chairman. This forced us to attempt to commit suicide and draw the attention of the authorities to the issue." "How long can we remain mute spectators when the public money is being swindled," said Ravi Kumar. tnn
 Thane: The officials of the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) seems to have pulled up their socks to ensure that the city is not down and under during the rains. On Thursday, the civic body opened seven roads that were widened and also carried out nullah cleaning across the city.  This initiative comes after TOI had reported about the lack of preparedness the TMC had ahead of the monsoon.  "We inaugurated seven roads that were widened in the city, including Thane station road, service road along Ghodbunder Road and Kapurbawdi-Balkum road. We are also working on repairing the broken footpaths and installing the missing covers on drainages. We are also ensuring that the civic machinery doesn't block the carriageways. Most of the work is done and everything should be completed in a day or two," said Ratan Awasarmol, TMC's city engineer.  Ashok Burpulle, the civic official in charge of the pre-monsoon drainage cleaning project, however, said that their work will continue till the rains begin.  "Even though we clean garbage and silt from the drains, citizens, especially those living in slum, keep throwing waste on a daily basis in the nullahs.When the rains arrive, the new waste flows down with the water. But till then we have to keep cleaning the drains," Burpulle said.

 Gorakhpur: International vice-president of World Hindu Federation, Samhitashastri Arjun Prasad Bastola from Nepal met BJP leader and chairman of World Hindu Federation (India chapter), Yogi Adityanath here on Thursday. The India chapter has given consent to co-organize Virat Hindu Sammelan at Kathmandu from October 20 to 22. Representatives from 100 nations are expected to participate.  Last time, the sammelan was held in 1988.  The objective of the sammelan is to make Nepal Hindu Rashtra again and to get the mandate of representatives from 100 nations on Ram Temple issue. "We'll make our stand clear on the issue according to the mandate. However, we are positive that under 'Modi raj' the issue will be resolved," Bastola said.  The federation has got the support of the present government in Nepal. It seems that the government is inclined towards making Nepal as Hindu Rashtra again, Bastola said. "The present Nepalese government has given Rs 20 lakh aid to the federation for sammelan in Kathmandu," he said.  "I'm happy that Modiji has brought ancient statues from America to India. I'm sure that Ram Temple issue will be resolved soon. VHP has clear views on the Ram temple issue," he said.
Giving an artist's perspective on the Kyoto-Varanasi partnership pact, an artist camp was held at an art gallery in the city. Nearly 20 artists from different cities gathered at this two-day camp to create work on the theme of Varanasi vs Kyoto. "A lot of official exchanges have happened in the past to work on this plan so we now thought of giving artists a chance to express themselves on the topic though their work," said Amit Mehta, coordinator of the event.The artists on their part were at their creative best while working on the theme. Jaya Gaur from Azamgarh depicted a half Buddha and half Shiv to show the similarity between both the cities, while Sumona Ash from Patna painted the landscape of the famed ghats of Varanasi on a Japanese fan. Providing a solution through her work was Kaveri Vij from Allahabad by connecting both the cities with the help of a bridge in her painting. She said, "The people of Varanasi have to take an initiative to keep the city clean, only then all efforts to make it beautiful will fall in place."
Surat: A six-and-a-half-year-old child died on Thursday due to complications that arose from reportedly consuming iron supplement tablets distributed under school health programme here on June 7. Three children - Shiva, Chandni and Rohit Pintu Khairnar - who were among 30 to consume the tablets, fell sick and had to be admitted to hospital. While Shiva and Chandni recovered and were discharged from the hospital, Rohit, a resident of Udhna, died in New Civil Hospital (NCH) here on Thursday. Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) chief medical officer Dr Aashish Naik said, "We have stopped distribution of the iron supplement tablets for the moment. Postmortem attributes septicaemia, internal bleeding with worm infection and acute liver injury as the primary cause of the child's death. We are awaiting forensic postmortem report to know the exact cause of Rohit's death." The 30 students of Udhna Anganwadi were given iron supplements as a part of the school health programme under which a total of 96,800 children of anganwadis received the tablets to counter anaemia."The boy became serious on Wednesday night and died in the early hours of Thursday," said a NCH doctor.
Varanasi: For Anjali, it was a normal Friday evening when she along with a friend left office after work. Halfway through, she realized that they were being followed by a bike-borne man who kept whistling and passing cheap comments. It was later that her friend informed her that the person had been leering at her and following her for months. Sadly, Anjali's (name changed) not a one-off case. A sample survey conducted by a human rights organization, Breakthrough, suggests that around 90% of women have fallen prey to sexual harassment in public spaces once in their lifetime. The survey witnessed participation of 749 youths between the age group of 15-24 years, and was carried out in UP, Delhi, Haryana, Karnataka, Bihar and Jharkhand. Vineet Tripathi, a spokesperson for the organisation, said, "The survey revealed that verbal comments and indecent acts were the most common forms of sexual harassment. Over 54% women experienced sexual harassment alone in UP. He said 81% girls from UP participated in the survey on sexual harassment. Majority of them experienced leering and staring at public spaces followed by stalking, obscene comments and online trolling."About 40% of the incidents of harassment occurred in market places followed by school/college and in buses. The survey revealed that 52% of the cases occurred at bus stops while 48% were when girls returned home from school. About 63% of women believed that public places were somewhat safe for them while 35% clearly considered it as hubs of sexual harassment. The report further states that 83.5% women considered bus stops and railway stations as the most unsafe public places. Coordinator of training and community mobilization, Sunil, said that the organization has been working on sexual harassment and domestic violence in four districts: Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Lucknow and Kanpur. "We have also sensitized this issue via adverts like Bell Bajao, online platform, so share your story and another in the pipeline."During a round-table conference on media and gender issues, declining child sex ratio (CSR) and issues like child marriage were also highlighted. Through a powerpoint presentation, gender expert Nasiruddin showcased the lowest CSR of Varanasi among districts from east UP region. According to Census 2011, CSR is at its lowest ever with only 885 girls for every 1,000 boys. It dipped by 34 points as compared to the CSR as per census of 2001. "The significant gap in the number of males and females in the city points to widespread female foeticide, sex selection and sex selective abortion," shared Nasiruddin, adding that CSR was even worst in western part of UP. Similar facts surfaced in case of child marriage with over 6,37,783 boys and 13,43,837 girls below the age of 10 being married off in UP. In Varanasi itself, 9,286 boys and 15,808 girls of less than 10 years were married off.
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KeSCPCR) has directed the education department to issue instructions to all schools not to force students to wear socks and shoes during monsoon this year. Instead, students can be allowed to wear comfortable sandals with their school uniform. The commission has also asked authorities concerned to submit an action taken report on the matter within the next 10 days.The decision was taken by the KeSCPCR division bench led by chairperson Shoba Koshy and member K Nazeer after a parent complained that during monsoon, students drenched in the rain were forced to wear soggy socks and wet shoes all day in the classrooms leading to ailments. The bench has directed the general education secretary, director and CBSE regional officer here to make it clear to all schools that they will not punish children or force them to wear shoes during rainy season.
 Gorakhpur: The Central government will spent Rs 1 lakh crore in one year on construction of roads in Uttar Pradesh, Union minister Nitin Gadkari said while interacting with journalists through video conferencing on Thursday.  Focussing on waterways, Gadkari said that Rs 170 crore will be spent on 1,620 km waterway project in Ganga from Varanasi to Haldia. The project will be completed in 26 months." Talking about 345 km waterway project in Ghaghra from Faizabad to Ballia, he said that Rs 105 crore will be spent.  On the construction of four-lane NH 29 connecting Gorakhpur, Varanasi, Mau and Ghazipur route, the minister said that the initial work related to the project is complete and the construction work will began in 15 days.  When he was asked about the earlier announcement of Ram Janki road and bypass road from Kalesar to Jungle Kaudia, he said that the DPR for 218 km Ram Janki Marg from Ayodhya to Janakpur via Kalwari and Gola is ready. "We have not got UP government NOC so far. We have also sent reminder to chief minister. As soon as we get the NOC, the work will start," he said. The work of Kalesar-Jungle Kaudia project will start in a month.  NHAI project manager A K Kushwaha and other officials were present.
Vijayawada: The state government is planning to rope in world renowned firms to help ryots streamline operations and make farming profitable. The consulting firms will assist farmers in all stages, right from sowing seeds to marketing produce. Extending weather inputs, insights in controlling pests and seasonal viruses would also be part of the consulting firms' job. The chief minister released the annual credit plan of the state here at the state level bankers committee (SLBC) meeting on Thursday. "We do not want farmers to earn mere remunerative prices. Each season should be profitable," said chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu, while elaborating on the plans to hire global giants to make agriculture profitable.The CM said negotiations with 25 top global consultants are underway. "We will bring farming experts. They will facilitate the farmers right from tilling the fields to sale of produce. We want the farmer to make big profits," Naidu said. He explained that hiring consultants would revolutionize the agriculture sector in the state. The government will take steps to provide water (irrigation) to each and every farmer in the state, said the CM. The state would also guide the farmers on the usage of fertilizer after referring to soil reports. Naidu said the government is taking steps to encourage setting up of agro-product industries, which will help promote the farmers' produce.The CM asked bankers to shun the traditional path of granting credit to farmers and instead adopt a scientific approach. He said the role of bankers is very important to reach the planned growth rate of 15 per cent in AP. "Ground water, rainfall, environment, pollution are necessary components to get good yields. We will guide the farmers with real time analysis," he said.The CM directed the bankers to liberally grant loans to the fisheries sector, as export of marine products are a major source of income for the state. He said the government has developed nearly 175 industrial clusters across the state and that bankers should target these clusters in their credit plan to propel growth.SLBC chairman and Andhra Bank managing director Suresh N Patel said AP is one of few states which has provided such huge loans to the agriculture sector in the last financial year. He said the credit plan for 2016-17 has been designed with Rs1,65,538 crore, which is an increase of nearly 32 per cent. The priority sector credit inflow would see a jump of 30 per cent as the bankers spared Rs1,25,538 crore. Agriculture sector alone would get Rs83,003, which was Rs75,448 crore last year. While Rs60,000 crore would be granted as short term (ST) loans, the remaining Rs23,003 crore would be spared as long term loans in agriculture sector. While dairy development was allocated loan of Rs5,536 crore, poultry sector got Rs1,299 crore. Fisheries sector was granted Rs1,713 crore credit. Sheep and goat breeding was allocated loan of Rs1,223 crore."We have dedicated nearly Rs25,000 crore for Mudra loans for MSME sector," said Suresh N Patel. Bankers would also assist the housing program with an outlay of Rs12,000 crore from which Rs7,340 crore would be dedicated to Prime Minister Awas Yojana (PMAY). Students would get loans to the tune of Rs2,155 crore to pursue higher education. Agriculture minister Prattipati Pullarao, HRD minister Ganta Srinivasa Rao were also present.
VIJAYAWADA: The Kapu Joint Action Committee will meet at Hotel Ilapuram on Friday at 4 pm. Senior leaders of Kapunadu and other caste organisations will be attending it.
Vijayawada: After the APSRTC employees shifted their base from Bus Bhavan in Hyderabad to NTR administrative block of RTC House in Vijayawada, it is time now for the road transport department to follow suit. Officials of the road transport department formally inaugurated the administrative office on the second floor of Pundit Nehru Bus Station (PNBS) on Thursday.Road transport commissioner N Bala Subrahmanyam said all employees based in Hyderabad are keen to come over to Vijayawada and half of them will start working in the new office by June 27.He said 151 officers and a few members of the staff will come to Vijayawada after offices are allotted to them. Shifting of the entire department will be done in two phases, he said and disclosed that major sections such as operations and maintenance will reach the new office in the first phase. Employees manning the remaining sections will shift in the second phase which concludes by July-end."With an area of 45,000 sft, the brand new administrative office will be constructed by the end of June," Bala Subrahmanyam.A press release of the Non-technical Employees' Association of the Transport Department (Zone- 2) said that its members are ready to follow the instructions of the state government on shifting.
VIJAYAWADA: The All Universities Employees and Workers Union (AUEWU) will hold its fourth annual conference in Tirupati on June 11 and 12 at the arts block auditorium on the Sri Venkateswara University campus. A symposium on Navya Andhra Pradesh and the role of universities will be held as part of the conference, according to A V Nageswara Rao, according to union general secretary.
VIJAYAWADA: Satyanaranaya Sarma, a shopkeeper in One Town area of the city, was seen seeking the blessings of the presiding deity of Kanaka Durga temple on the foothills of Indrakeeladri on Thursday. He was forced to have 'darshan' of the deity, which is part of his daily routine, at the entrance of the ghat road as vehicles are not being permitted to reach the temple. "I visit the temple every morning before opening my shop. However, I am unable to do this for the past one week, as the ghat road has been closed for vehicular traffic on account of flyover and pushkaram works," Sarma rued.Sarma is not alone in his predicament. The decision of the temple management to close the ghat road for traffic has upset many other devotees as they are now forced to climb up the stairway of the six-storey Mallikharjuna Maha Mandpam and then walk up to the temple for darshan of the deity. The devotees have to take go up 240 steps of the Maha Mandapam to reach the top of the hill and then stand in queue lines atop the Indrakeeladri for 'darshan'. Visitors from far off places are facing serious problems like pain in the legs and dizziness. As part of the works taken up in preparation for Krishna Pushkarams and implementation of the master plan, the temple officials put up 'No-Entry' boards on the ghat road and locked the temple's main gate on Monday. They have demolished Bhavani Mandapam, shops, cloak rooms, Kala Darshini Mandapam and Annadanam complex.According to the master plan, all the existing shops, offices, rest rooms, Annadanam complex, kitchen and counters will be shifted to first and second floors of the Maha Mandapam."All the six members of our family have come to the city by car to seek Durgamma's blessings. But when the temple officials did not allow us to take the road, we took the steps route and had the 'darshan' after spending two hours in queue lines," Veeranjaneyulu, a devotee from Hyderabad, said.Aged devotees and children are facing difficulty in trekking up to the top floor of Mallikharjuna Maha Manadapam. Many devotees have complained that they are facing numerous problems due to lack of a road from the temple main gate to Mallikharjuna Maha Mandapam. Besides, Arjun Street is jam-packed after temporary shifting of the Annadanam complex to the Sringeri Mutt and this has compounded the woes of the devout. The slippery rain-soaked steps of Maha Mandapam is another cause for worry."The building has the lift facility but officials have reserved it for VIPs. How can an aged woman reach the top floor by climbing up the steps?" a devotee from Jaggayyapet said questioning the attitude of the temple officials.Expressing anger at the official apathy, he urged the authorities to make the lift service available for at least aged and disabled devotees. When contacted, temple assistant executive officer S Achyutha Ramaiah dismissed rumours that the lift service is being extended only to VIPs and said it was in bad condition and efforts are on to repair it. "We are allowing devotees through Maha Mandapam via Kanaka Durga Nagar in Arjuna Street and Sivalayam Temple Road in Brahmin Street," explained Achyuta Ramaiah.
Vijayawada: Agriculture minister Prathipati Pulla Rao on Thursday said that the state government will release a second installment of agriculture debt waiver amount on June 22. He said that around Rs3,500 crore would be directly credited into the farmers account as part of the second installment. Speaking to reporters after the state-level bankers committee (SLBC) meeting in the city, he said that chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu would formally launch agriculture operations at Eruvaka in West Godavari district on June 20. Pulla Rao said that loan waiver bonds distribution program would be held in Ongole on June 22 in which the CM would take part. He said that they would also hand over the bonds to the farmers pertaining to the balance of the loan waiver. "We are giving 10 per cent rate of interest on the bonds. Farmers should keep their amounts in bonds. We will remit Rs3,500 crore into the accounts of all eligible farmers and hand over bonds to the rest," he said. The minister explained that the government had spent about Rs8,500 crore during the first phase of loan waiver program last year. He said that the government had taken all measures to avoid shortage of seeds and fertilizers across the state. He said that fertilizer distribution would be done through electronic point of sale mode in Krishna district to prevent black marketing."We have readied full stocks of seeds and fertilizers to meet the demands for the kharif season," he pointed out while assuring a huge subsidy on agricultural implements. The move is expected to reduce input costs, and ensure reasonable profits for those taking up cultivation. The state government has reached its 10 lakh farm ponds target, the minister claimed. "Groundwater levels jumped to all-time high in many regions thanks to these ponds. About 3 tmc of water is sufficient to manage the agriculture operations in one lakh acres throughout the season. The high water table would help cultivate nearly 19 lakh acres in the state," he added.
Vijayawada, Jun 9 () The   Andhra Pradesh Government tonight promoted six Indian   Administrative Service (IAS) officers belonging to the 1985 and 1986 batches to the rank of Special Chief Secretary (CS). Three more officers of these batches were also granted "proforma" promotions as they are currently serving on Central deputation. With these promotions, the total number of IAS officers in the Chief Secretary\Special Chief Secretary rank in   AP has gone up to a staggering 23. While seven of the Special CS rank officers, including the three promoted today, are on Central deputation, three officers are set to retire between August and December. That would still leave 13 Special CS rank officers in the   State . As per an order issued by Chief Secretary   Satya Prakash Tucker , 1985 batch IAS officers P V Ramesh Babu, Veena Ish, Manmohan Singh and   Jagdish Chandra Sharma have been promoted to the rank of Special CS and retained in the posts they have been holding. Similarly, 1986 batch officers   D Sambasiva Rao and   Satish Chandra have been promoted and retained in their existing posts. As per the cadre allocation, following the bifurcation of the State in 2014, AP got four posts of the CS\Special CS rank officers. It could create as many ex-cadre posts but with today's promotion of officers the number has more than tripled, a senior bureaucrat pointed out. While Sambasiva Rao is Executive Officer of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams, Satish will now be the Special Chief Secretary to the Chief Minister. Sameer Sharma, Mission Director of Smart Cities and a 1985 batch officer, has been granted proforma promotion along with his batch mate   Reddi Subrahmanyam , who is Additional Secretary in the   Department of Higher Education in the   Union Ministry of HRD . Abhay Tripathiof 1986 batch, who is now the senior Staff Director in the National Defence College, has also been granted proforma promotion, the order issued by Tucker said. DBV RSY RCJ
Visakhapatnam: Six persons were arrested by the steel plant police in connection for theft of copper plates in the city on Thursday. Two of the arrested are said to be habitual buyers of stolen goods. DCP (crime) T Ravi Kumar Murthy identified the four arrested for stealing the ingots as Bosa Ramu of Paykaraopeta, G Harish Reddy of Malkapuram, S Naresh of Gajuwaka and Sripurusottam Tirupati of Berhampu in Odisha. The police recovered eight copper ingots weighing around 360 kilos from the four. The accused trespassed into the steel plant on April 28 by scaling the wall, entered the HES stores through holes on the asbestos sheet and stole four copper plates worth Rs5.82 lakh. After shifting the goods through the same wall, they took it to a foundry at Autonagar and got it molded into eight ingots.The four then sold two ingots for Rs10,000 each to Pyla Prakash of Chinagantyada and Ravada Govindareddy of BC Road Gajuwaka. They were arrested while taking away the remaining ingots, which were hidden near Kanithi overbridge on Thursday.
Visakhapatnam, Jun 9 () Two persons died today and another was seriously injured after they jumped off the third floor of a building to escape attack by a pet dog here, police said. Five workers were engaged in polishing of furniture in the third floor of an apartment in   Lalithanagar area. A German shepherd dog belonging to the building owner,   Narava Rambabu , who resides on the fourth floor, came to attack the workers. In a bid to escape from the dog's attack, two of the workers bolted the door from inside, while the other three jumped to the ground from the apartment's balcony, police said, quoting eyewitnesses. One of the workers C   Gopi (28) died on the spot due to severe head injuries, while another   Hussain Valli (43) succumbed to wounds while undergoing treatment at   Kala hospital, they said. The third one, B Srinivas, is undergoing treatment at the hospital and his condition is said to be stable, said BBS   Ganesh , Sub-Inspector of Fourth Town Police Station. All three were residents of   Akkayyapalem area in the city. No case has been filed yet in connection with the incident. "We are verifying all the facts before registering a case," Ganesh said. On the other end, the co-workers alleged it was a clear case of negligence on part of the dog owner and demanded police register a case against Rambabu. COR RSY PVI
 Varanasi: The Varanasi field unit of ATS got the location of a gang of counterfeit Indian currencies (CFIC) smugglers when they were entering Bihar through Raxaul border on Tuesday. A team of this unit, which was chasing the smugglers of this gang, caught four of them in Motihari of Bihar with a consignment of CFIC of Rs 14.86 lakh value.  SP (ATS) Varanasi unit, Santosh Singh told TOI on Wednesday, "All the arrested CFIC smugglers were handed over to Gadwa police in Motihari after lodging an FIR."  The arrested smugglers were identified as Ajay Kumar Upadhyaya, Chandraprakash Shukla, Amarnath of Mau district in UP and Ajay Gupta of Motihari. During initial interrogation of ATS it surfaced that Chandraprakash is the henchman of a muscleman politician of West Champaran in Bihar, who was made an accused in Virendra Pratap Shahi murder case about two decades back. More than 24 cases of murder, loot, kidnapping, extortion and others are lodged against Chandraprakash with UP, Bihar and Jharkhand police. Officials informed that Ajay Upadhyaya is posted as Shiksha Mitra in a primary school in Mau.  The exposure of involvement of these gangs in procuring CFIC to circulate in parts of UP and the revival of gangs in Nepal to pump CFIC printed in Pakistan through porous Indo-Nepal borders has increased worries of the officials. The officials mentioned that the killings of Majid Manihar and Parvez Tanda in 2009 and arrest of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim's commander in Nepal Yunus Ansari in 2010 had blocked the route of CFIC smuggling through Birganj (Nepal) border, Nepalganj and Siddharthnagar gateways for a long time.  The records of the agencies including of ATS also make it clear that during recoveries of CFIC and arrest of smugglers in past four year it surfaced that Bangladesh borders were being used to bring CFIC in India via Malda instead of Nepal. The officials disclosed that following the recent recovery of CFIC of over about Rs 1.50 crore value by Nepal police they have increased vigil on the gangs which in past were active in smuggling CFIC through Indo-Nepal border in this region. They said that activities of gangs like of Chandraprakash had increased in past four months. Some other gangs involved in these activities are on their radar, said officials.
Varanasi: Ensuring justice for the most backward classes of UP will be the prime task for the BJP after coming to power in UP in 2017, said Union home minister and former BJP president Rajnath Singh. "While the quota benefit for OBCs is being grabbed by a limited section in the state, the most backward class is deprived of its rights," said the Union minister while addressing BJP's 'Samajik Nyaya Sammelan' at the Railway ground in Mau on Thursday."After coming to power in the state in 2017, the BJP would implement the report of the standing committee on social justice," he claimed.Rajnath targeted the SP government in UP on the issue of Pradhanmantri Kisan Bima Yojana, alleging "the state government had not taken this insurance scheme for farmers seriously despite the fact that BJP-led NDA government at the Centre had introduced it for the benefit of farmers and to increase their income". He also alleged that though huge funds were allocated for the farmers against loss of their crops, the state government has failed to distribute it among the needy.Mentioning Mathura's bloody clash that claimed 29 lives, the home minister also criticized the SP government for its alleged failure on law and order front. He asked the people to recall the regimes of Kalyan Singh and his own government in state in this regard. Rajnath also praised the working of the Central government and gave all credit to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for "improving the image of the country globally". He alleged, "During Congress-led UPA government regime new records of scams and corrupt practices were being set and ministers were going behind the bars. But, the ministers of Modi cabinet are going among the countrymen to give report card of their performances." He advised other political parties to take lessons on good governance from the Modi government.
Visakhapatnam: The southwest monsoon is likely to hit Visakhapatnam city on Saturday or Sunday if the present conditions continue to prevail, according to weathermen from India Meteorological Department. The monsoon has already made its onset in Kerala on Wednesday and further advanced into some parts of Rayalaseema like Kadapa and Anantapur on Thursday. The monsoon would cover the entirety of Andhra Pradesh in the next three days, said a senior met official from Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC).An upper air cyclonic circulation over Bangladesh and adjoining north Bay of Bengal extending up to 5.8 kms above main sea level would also help the rapid progress of the onset of the monsoon over the north coastal AP, said the officer.
Kakinada: Kapu leader Mudragada Padmanabham was arrested by the East Godavari cops after he launched an indefinite hunger strike along with his wife and family members at his house in Kirlampudi on Thursday morning demanding that those arrested in the Tuni violence be immediately released. Soon after his arrest, Mudragada brandished a bottle and claiming it to be poison, drank it. The cops immediately shifted him to Rajahmundry for treatment while his wife and younger son and daughter in-law were taken to the same hospital in another ambulance. The sources said Mudragada consumed the contents of the bottle when cops broke open his house doors and arrested him. However, doctors at Rajahmundry hospital reportedly said Mudragaga is out of danger and that his health condition is said to be stable. He was later produced before a magistrate and sent to judicial custody.As a precautionary measure, cops set up police outposts at various places including Erravaram, Pattipadu and Kirlampudi and closed all roads leading to Kirlampudi by deploying huge forces monitored by around 10 DSP rank officers and hundreds of security personnel. Meanwhile, supporters of the Kapu leader have given a Konaseema bandh call for Friday.
VIJAYAWADA: The proposals for inclusion of 74 castes, including Kapu, Telaga, Balija and Ontari communities, in the Backward Classes list is under active consideration of the Andhra Pradesh Commission for Backward Classes (APCBC), according to A Krishnamohan, member-secretary of the commission. The BC Commission has issued a press release over the latest status of the government's commitment to accord BC status to Kapus in the wake of an indefinite fast launched by Kapu leader Mudragada Padmanabham which was foiled by the police at Kirlampudi in East Godavari district on Thursday. The member-secretary said that another proposal for change of status to backward classes with respect to 39 castes is also under consideration of the commission."The commission has prepared a detailed integrated survey study manual to elicit social, educational and economic backwardness of communities in the state and submitted it to the government so as to use it as a guide for conducting the smart pulse survey (SPS) as a precursor to declare any caste as part of Backward Classes," he said.According to the member-secretary, the commission has asked the government to conduct a household survey to determine the economic and social backwardness of each community in the state. The commission has prepared the survey format to collect empirical data afresh with scientific procedure and also to generate ethnographic data base for all communities, including BCs, in the state.
Vijayawada: Satyanaranaya Sarma, a shopkeeper in One Town area of the city, was seen seeking the blessings of the presiding deity of Kanaka Durga temple on the foothills of Indrakeeladri on Thursday. He was forced to have 'darshan' of the deity, which is part of his daily routine, at the entrance of the ghat road as vehicles are not being permitted to reach the temple."I visit the temple every morning before opening my shop. However, I am unable to do this for the past one week, as the ghat road has been closed for vehicular traffic on account of flyover and pushkaram works," Sarma rued.Sarma is not alone in his predicament. The decision of the temple management to close the ghat road for traffic has upset many devotees like him as they are now forced to climb up the stairway of the six-storey Mallikharjuna Maha Mandpam and then walk up to the temple for darshan of the deity. The devotees have to take go up 240 steps of the Maha Mandapam to reach the top of the hill and then stand in queue lines atop the Indrakeeladri for 'darshan'. Visitors from far off places are facing serious problems like pain in the legs and dizziness.As part of the works taken up in preparation for Krishna Pushkarams and implementation of the master plan, the temple officials put up 'No-Entry' boards on the ghat road and locked the temple's main gate on Monday. They have demolished Bhavani Mandapam, shops, cloak rooms, Kala Darshini Mandapam and Annadanam complex.According to the master plan, all the existing shops, offices, rest rooms, Annadanam complex, kitchen and counters will be shifted to the first and second floors of the Maha Mandapam."All the six members of our family have come to the city by car to seek Durgamma's blessings. But when the temple officials did not allow us to take the road, we took the steps route and had the 'darshan' after spending two hours in queue lines," Veeranjaneyulu, a devotee from Hyderabad, said.Aged devotees and children are facing difficulty in trekking up to the top floor of Mallikharjuna Maha Manadapam. Many devotees have complained that they are facing numerous problems due to lack of a road from the temple main gate to Mallikharjuna Maha Mandapam. Besides, Arjun Street is jam-packed after temporary shifting of the Annadanam complex to the Sringeri Mutt and this has compounded the woes of the devout. The slippery rain-soaked steps of Maha Mandapam are another cause for worry."The building has the lift facility but officials have reserved it for VIPs. How can an aged woman reach the top floor by climbing up the steps?" a devotee from Jaggayyapet said questioning the attitude of the temple officials.Expressing anger at the official apathy, he urged the authorities to make the lift service available for at least aged and disabled devotees.When contacted, temple assistant executive officer S Achyutha Ramaiah dismissed rumours that the lift service is being extended only to VIPs and said it was in bad condition and efforts are on repair it. "We are allowing devotees through Maha Mandapam via Kanaka Durga Nagar in Arjuna Street and Sivalayam Temple Road in Brahmin Street," explained Achyuta Ramaiah.
WASHINGTON: A milestone has arrived for President Barack Obama: Daughter Malia is graduating from high school.The 17-year-old is receiving her diploma from the private Sidwell Friends School on Friday. Malia Obama was just 10 years old and longing for a promised puppy when her family moved into the White House. During seven years of growing up in the public eye, she has gotten and shed braces, learned to drive and even spent brief stints away from her family.Presidents are parents, too, and it hasn't been easy for Obama to watch as his daughter - "one of my best friends" - has grown up fast, and in front of the world."I'm not going to talk about the fact that my daughter leaving me is just breaking my heart," he said last week.Months ago, the president blamed his emotions for declining an invitation to deliver the commencement address at the elite school where Malia is among 127 members of the Class of 2016. Younger sister Sasha, who turned 15 on Friday, attends Sidwell, too.What's next? Malia is taking a year for herself before enrolling at Harvard in the fall of 2017.Neither Obama nor his wife, Michelle, has said what Malia has on tap for her "gap year". But delaying the start of college could keep her close to her tight-knit family as it prepares for another big transition next year: the end of Obama's ground-breaking presidency. The Obamas plan to stick around Washington for several years after the president leaves office so Sasha can finish high school here.Both parents often praise Malia and her sister for being normal, happy kids despite living lives that are anything but normal.Start with calling the White House home. They were the youngest kids to do so since President John F Kennedy's children, Caroline and John Jr, and they were trailed in public by Secret Service agents. Obama has joked that it was comforting to know that when his girls were out and about they were being watched over by "men with guns".Malia has traveled to Europe, Africa, Asia, South America and the Caribbean with her parents, and taken a school trip to Mexico. She's met celebrities and high-powered people, including two popes.The first lady has said her daughter wants to be a filmmaker. Malia has had summer internships on the New York set of HBO's "Girls" and in Los Angeles on a CBS sci-fi drama, since canceled, that starred Halle Berry. The experiences allowed her to sample life on her own, though not outside the reach of her Secret Service protectors.Three months into her new White House life, Malia got the long-awaited puppy: Bo, a Portuguese water dog that was less likely than other breeds to aggravate her allergies. Obama had promised his kids a dog after the November 2008 election.The young girl whose swing set still sits just outside the Oval Office is now taller than her 6-foot-1 dad, and turns heads whenever she's spotted around town - including driving her car.At school, Malia played soccer and tennis, the flute and piano. In a house with 132 rooms, she opted not to share one with her sister. Both girls get themselves up early every day to get ready for school, the first lady has said. They also make their own beds and handle their laundry.Braces appeared when Malia was 12. Secret Service agents taught her how to drive.Malia turns 18 on July 4, in time to cast her first vote for president - and for her father's successor.
WASHINGTON: Describing the just concluded US visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as "historic", the Obama administration has christened his vision of Indo-US ties that has  overcome the "hesitations of history"  and working for the betterment of the global good as "Modi Doctrine".      "The most important outcome in my mind of the visit this week and of the years of effort that preceded it is the clear and compelling vision that was laid out by Prime Minister Modi before joint session of the US Congress," assistant secretary of state for South and Central Asia Nisha Desai Biswal said.      "This vision which I have come to call the "Modi Doctrine laid out a foreign policy that overcomes the hesitations of history and embraces the convergence between our two countries and our shared interests," Biswal told a Washington audience.      Biswal, the Obama administration's point person for South and Central Asia, said this at a discussion on 'security and strategic outcomes from the Modi visit' organised on Thursday here jointly by the Heritage Foundation — an American think-tank — and India Foundation, a New Delhi based think-tank.      Modi, she said, in his speech furthered his bold vision of India-US partnership that can anchor peace, prosperity and stability from Asia to Africa, from the Indian Ocean to the Pacific and help ensure the security of the sea lanes of commerce and freedom of navigation on the seas.      "This Modi Doctrine notes that the absence of an agreed security architecture creates uncertainty in Asia and reiterates India's adherence to and calls for others support for international laws and norms," Biswal said.      India, she said, is now key element of Obama administration's rebalance to Asia  , a strategy which recognizes that America's security and prosperity increasingly depend on the security and prosperity of the Indo-Pacific.      "The joint strategic vision which was issued last year laid out our mutual goals and interests in the Indo-Pacific and across the global commons. We are now implementing a road map that sets out a path of co-operation to achieve those goals and protect those interests," Biswal said.      In his remarks, US ambassador to India Richard Verma said the US welcomes and shares the Prime Minister's vision.      "We have made a clear and strategic choice to support India's transition to become, as foreign secretary S Jaishankar has articulated, a leading power. Our actions, as security partners in every sense of the word, speak to this endeavor," he said.      "We envision India as a leading power that can uphold international norms and support what defence secretary Carter called last week a 'principled security network' in Asia. A leading power that can grow its economy while at the same time demonstrating global leadership on clean energy and climate," he said.      "And a leading power that joins likeminded partners to safeguard the global commons. Realising this vision will require diligent work on part of the bureaucracies in both Washington and Delhi and resilience to overcome obstacles that may arise," Verma said.
Visakhapatnam: In a bid to woo land owners, the AP government has approved a higher compensation package than provided under the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act 2013 for payment to the concerned land owners of Gudepuvalasa, Kancheru and Kavulavada of Bhogapuram mandals for the proposed Bhogapuram International Airport in Vizianagaram district. The three villages combined would contribute 1,409.84 acres for the Bhogapuram International Airport project of which 565.84 acres are in Kavulavada village, 465.96 acres in Gudepuvalasa village and 378.04 acres in Kancheru village of Bhogapuram mandal.The state government has approved the proposal for higher compensation package following a state-level committee meeting held earlier this month in which the compensation was fixed at Rs33 lakh per acre as against the original proposal of Rs22.17 lakh per acre in Gudepuvalasa village, Rs28 lakh per acre as against original proposal of Rs18.68 lakh for Kavulavada village, and Rs28 lakh per acre as against original proposal of Rs18.80 lakh per acre in Kancheru village excluding the value of trees and structures in the mandal.Land owners were in disagreement with the district administration over the initial compensation package offered to them. The state government on Thursday said, "The collector, Vizianagaram district, has also informed that the land owners are not willing to receive the compensation as per the above market value."
 Varanasi: Ensuring justice for the most backward classes of UP will be the prime task for the BJP after coming to power in UP in 2017, said Union home minister and former BJP president Rajnath Singh.  "While the quota benefit for OBCs is being grabbed by a limited section in the state, the most backward class is deprived of its rights," said the Union minister while addressing BJP's 'Samajik Nyaya Sammelan' at the Railway ground in Mau on Thursday.  "After coming to power in the state in 2017, the BJP would implement the report of the standing committee on social justice," he claimed.  Rajnath targeted the SP government in UP on the issue of Pradhanmantri Kisan Bima Yojana, alleging "the state government had not taken this insurance scheme for farmers seriously despite the fact that BJP-led NDA government at the Centre had introduced it for the benefit of farmers and to increase their income".  He also alleged that though huge funds were allocated for the farmers against loss of their crops, the state government has failed to distribute it among the needy.  Mentioning Mathura's bloody clash that claimed 29 lives, the home minister also criticized the SP government for its alleged failure on law and order front. He asked the people to recall the regimes of Kalyan Singh and his own government in state in this regard.  Rajnath also praised the working of the Central government and gave all credit to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for "improving the image of the country globally".  He alleged, "During Congress-led UPA government regime new records of scams and corrupt practices were being set and ministers were going behind the bars. But, the ministers of Modi cabinet are going among the countrymen to give report card of their performances." He advised other political parties to take lessons on good governance from the Modi government.  Earlier, during his address, Union minister of state for railways Manoj Sinha disclosed the number of projects launched for improving rail network and services in east UP.
Visakhapatnam: In a tragic incident, two workers fell to their death and a third sustained serious injuries when they jumped from the third floor of an apartment to escape being chased by a pet dog at Lalitha Nagar on Thursday. Police said the dog, a German Sheperd, chased the workers and bit one of them before the latter panicked and jumped to their death. The deceased were identified as N Gopi (28) and Sheik Hussain (43). The injured was identified as T Srinivas (30). All three were residents of Akkayyapalem. While Gopi died on the spot, Hussain succumbed to injuries at the nearby Kala hospital. Srinivas is undergoing treatment for multiple fractures at King George's Hospital (KGH). According to an eyewitness and the police, five workers were engaged in polishing furniture and painting the walls of the building on the third floor as part of the renovation work. The building owner Narava Rambabu's pet German Shepherd, who was chained on the fourth floor, broke loose and chancing the workers on the third floor, proceeded to chase them. To escape from the dog, two of the workers bolted the door from inside and three of them went to the balcony from where they fell to their death. Eyewitnesses claimed that the dog bit Gopi who jumped from the building to escape more wounds. Though the workers had earlier requested the owner to keep the canine away, he ignored the workers' plea, they added. Sources said Rambabu is the president of the BC Welfare Association and also a relative of panchayat raj minister Ayyanna Patrudu.Speaking to the media, Rambabu said it was unfortunate that the dog broke loose and rushed down. He said the dog does not bite people and only barks at strangers.When contacted, sub-inspector BBS Ganesh said they were waiting for an official complaint from the relatives of the deceased to file an FIR. "We will mostly file section 304(A)- Death Due to Negligence - case against the accused. The accused and victims were negotiating a compensation package till Thursday evening," Ganesh told TOI.
Vadodara: When Archit Trivedi took admission in an engineering college in the city, little did he know that fate would test him far much more than just academics. When he was in college, his father was detected with cancer. This 22-year-old had to take up job of a security guard in an agency to bear expenses for his father's treatment and continue with his studies. He has now appeared in the last semester of civil engineering degree course and is expecting his results. Trivedi's father was a worker in a private firm. Trivedi has been a bright student throughout.n"My father was detected with throat cancer in the beginning of 2013, just a few days before my third semester examination. I was unable to give my examination and was detained for a year. During this tenure, I joined a security agency in the city to meet my daily expenses," he said.Few months after detection, Trivedi's father successfully underwent surgery after which he resumed work. A few months later, he lost his job due to financial problems in the factory.  Trivedi used to work as a bouncer in the events in the evenings for which he used to get paid anywhere between Rs10,000 and Rs15,000 per month.
A regional workshop on Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojanawill be organized at Hotel SP Grand Days at 10am on Friday. Executive director of National Housing BankSanjeev Sharma will inaugurate the event.   SBI GM assumes office: Alok Kumar Sharma has taken charge as general manager of State Bank of India, Thiruvananthapuram circle. Prior to this posting, Sharma was general manager at corporate centre of the bank in Mumbai.   New inspecting officer at HRC: Inspector general E J Jayraj has taken charge as chief inspecting officer at Kerala State Human Rights Commission.   Vacancy of project assistant: Applications have been invited for recruitment to the post of project assistant (temporary) in geotechnical division of the civil department at Government Engineering College. Diploma in civil engineering, BTech or MTech is the required qualification. Interested candidates should be present with certificates at the department at 10.30 am on Friday. Contact: 0471 2515611/605/662.   MBA admission: The online admission to the MBA programme at IMK and UIM has been extended to 5pm on July 15. A KMAT test will be conducted by the Justice James Committee on June 26. For details, log in to www.lbscentre.in/kmatjune2016.   Polytechnic admission: The walk-in-interview for vacant seats in mechanical, electrical and textile technology at Central Polytechnic College, Vattiyoorkavu, will be held at 10am on Friday, Monday and Tuesday. Candidates should appear with original certificates. For details, log in to www.cptctvpm.in or contact: 0471 2360391.   'My Tree' launch: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate My Tree, a green initiative of Manav Ekta Parishad, at VJT Hall at 9:30am on Friday. The CM will plant a sapling at the event.   Admission to Class XII : Applications have been invited for admission to Class XII in government higher secondary schools. Students should register their names with the principals of the centres with original certificates before June 30. Contact: 0471 2342271, 2340369, 0483 2734295.
LOS ANGELES: A California mother was reunited on Thursday with her abducted son, laying eyes on him and wrapping her arms around him for the first time in 21 years.   Maria Mancia had been left with just a single photo of her son since his father took him in 1995. The boy she last saw when he was just 18 months old is now a man.   Steve Hernandez, 22, was found living in Puebla, Mexico, and on Thursday morning was brought to the US to meet his mother for an emotional reunion.   "Now this anguish I've carried is gone now that I have my son back,'' Mancia told KABC-TV. "I spent 21 years looking for him not knowing anything.''   The San Bernardino CountyDistrict Attorney's Child Abduction Unithad been looking for Hernandez through the years, searching for him in several states. Investigators then received a strong tip in February that he was in Mexico. The father, Valentin Hernandez, is missing and believed to be dead, authorities said.   Investigator Karen Cragg, who led the search, said they had to approach Steve Hernandez delicately.   "We used a ruse to contact him. We told him we were investigating his father and we needed his DNA to help locate his father,'' Cragg told The Associated Presson Thursday. "We didn't want to scare him off. We weren't sure what the circumstances were down there. We had to tread very carefully.''      The two parents and their toddler boy had been living in Rancho Cucamonga, California, in 1995. The parents were having relationship struggles. Mancia came home from work one day to find both the elder Hernandez and their son missing.   The father had even taken all of their photos of the boy, including an ultrasound. Mancia had to write to a relative to get a picture.   "That became the only photograph she had of Steve for the last 21 years,'' Cragg said.   She immediately reported the boy missing and the investigation had been active ever since, first with the Sheriff's Department, then with DA's investigators.   Neither the mother nor her child was told when Steve Hernandez was first found, lest false hope be created.   Once the DNA sample was obtained in February, Cragg asked the Department of Justiceif they could hurry on the test, knowing it could take several months.   "They called me in two weeks and said it was a match,'' Cragg said.   Cragg and her partner drove straight to Mancia's house.   "It was like she didn't believe us at first,'' Cragg said. "She began to cry. She said she couldn't believe he was still alive.''   Because Steve Hernandez is a US citizen, there were no immigration troubles returning him to the US, Cragg said. Authorities in both countries were hugely helpful in making it happen.   He had no personal documents at all, but his mother had his birth certificate and more.   The boy's father had told him that his mother abandoned the two of them.   He now knows that wasn't true. And he now knows his mother.   "I lived all these years without my mother, then to find out she's alive in another country, it's emotional,'' Hernandez told KABC. He said he plans to stay in the US and hopes to attend law school, which he already started in Mexico.   He hugged his crying mother when he finally met her. Then wiped tears from her eyes.
Cairo, June 9, 2016 (AFP) - A vessel with an underwater robot arrived in   Egypt on Thursday and is set to begin searching the   Mediterranean for the wreck of the   EgyptAir plane that crashed last month, authorities said. The "   John Lethbridge " research vessel, which Egypt has hired from the   Deep Ocean Search company, would begin combing the seabed on Friday in the crash zone between the Greek island of   Crete and Egypt. What caused the   Airbus A320 operating Flight MS804 from   Paris to   Cairo to go down on May 19, killing all 66 people on board, remains a mystery. The vessel, whose equipment can locate and retrieve black boxes from the seabed, arrived in   Alexandria on Thursday, said Egypt's civil aviation authority. "The aircraft accident investigation   committee for MS804 was at the port upon the arrival of the vessel," the authority said in a statement. Committee members along with experts from Airbus are expected to embark before the ship leaves for the crash zone some 290 kilometres (180 miles) north of the Egyptian coast, a source close to the investigation told AFP. A French navy vessel using deep-water listening devices picked up signals from one of the black boxes over a week ago, but so far it has failed to locate either it or the second recorder. "For the moment we are hopeful of managing to locate these recorders while they continue to emit (pings)," said   Remi Jouty , director of the French aviation safety agency BEA. But he acknowledged "we have to be quick", in remarks to reporters in Paris. The flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder have enough battery power to emit signals for four to five weeks. The area where the plane went down is believed to be about 3,000 metres (10,000 feet) deep. The "John Lethbridge" has a side scan sonar that provides digital images of the seabed, as well as a robot capable of diving to 3,000 metres. Some small pieces of wreckage were retrieved from the Mediterranean last month, along with belongings of passengers, but no bodies have been found so far. Investigators have said it is too soon to determine what caused the disaster. While speculation initially centred on a terror attack, a technical fault has also not been ruled out, with automated messages sent by the plane shortly before its demise indicating smoke in the cabin and a fault in the flight control unit. The crash took place seven months after the bombing of a Russian airliner over Egypt's restive   Sinai Peninsula in October that killed all 224 people on board. The   Islamic State group claimed responsibility for that attack. There has been no such claim over the EgyptAir crash. bur/cb-mma/dv     AIRBUS GROUP
Vijayawada: A three-member team of trekkers, led by 52-year-old Indukuri Vijayalakshmi from Narayanapuram in West Godavari district, have made Andhra Pradesh proud by climbing a 6,100-metre peak braving all odds and named it after Amaravati. They also hoisted the national flag during their day-long stay at the peak.The other two persons who brought laurels to the state are Pettali Lyban, a class VII dropout from the hill tribe of Kondreddies in Araku valley of Visakhapatnam district and Pisini Sattibabu, an undergraduate student from Palasa in Vizianagaram district. "Since the state was bifurcated and Amaravati is to be the new capital, we merely wanted to contribute a mite to AP in our own way," Vijayalakshmi told mediapersons in Vijayawada on Thursday. The team, which began its mission from Kullu district in Himachal Pradesh, took 10 days to accomplish the task. "We set up our base camp at Jagatsukh and set out for the adventure on May 21 and reached the summit by noon on June 1," she recalled.The climbers belonging to the Adventure Club of Andhra Pradesh (ACAP) set up five base camps en route, the last one being on the Mt Deo Tibba (6001 m). "By the time we reached the base camp at Deo Tibba, we were thoroughly tired and developed nausea. Sattibabu suffered from dysentery," Vijayalakshmi said.For Lyban, who has been exposed to hilly terrains right from birth, the trek was not so arduous. "I could move forward with ease but it was my duty to take care of Sattibabu while pursuing our expedition," he recounted. He has been active as a guide in the waterfall raffling and trekking events organised by the adventure club for the last 12 years in the Araku valley. In fact, Vijayalakshmi entered the Limca book of records with her adventure in a waterfall raffling event in the Katika waterfall (400 m).She expressed her resolve to lead another expedition to Himalayas with women-only climbers from the state next time. "Mountaineering has become male-centric. I am eager to break this stereotype by roping in more number of women. As a prelude, I did this current expedition," she explained."We are used to 40-odd degree Celsius temperatures in AP. When we reached DeoTibba, the temperature dipped to minus 20 degrees Centigrade. When we disparately tried to heat water on a gas stove for drinking, the liquid turned an ice cube by the time we tried to sip it," Vijayalakshmi recollected. She added that her daughter Harika, a bank employee, sponsored the expedition to Himalayas.ACAP president K Ranga Rao said that he intends to develop adventure tourism as an enterprise in the Araku valley area with the experience gained by the team, besides establishing a training centre to impart climbing skills to youths. He expressed the hope that the activity would provide livelihood to Lyban.
WASHINGTON: US Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton said Senator Elizabeth Warren, a leader of the progressive wing in the Democratic Party, was qualified to be her running mate.      "I think she (Warren) is an incredible public servant, eminently qualified for any role," said Clinton in an interview with US daily Politico, reports Xinhua news agency.      "I look forward to working with her on behalf of not only the campaign and her very effective critique of Trump, but also on the issues that she and I both care about," said Clinton.      Politico reported that when asked if her rival Bernie Sanders had earned a place on the ticket, Clinton disagreed.      "His passion for the issues that he promoted has been good for the Democratic party and for the country," said Clinton.      "I look forward to talking with him when our campaigns can find a time that works with both our schedules."      As the darling of the progressive wing of the party, Warren's endorsement, which was among the most sought-after ones in this Democratic primary season that had so far prioritized progressive agenda, was yet to be granted to any candidate.      However, Warren is scheduled to come off the sidelines and formally endorse Clinton.      US President Barack Obama also formally threw his support behind Clinton for president early on Thursday, declaring that he did not think there's "ever been someone so qualified to hold this office".
TOKYO: Japan's first "naked restaurant" scheduled to open next month in Tokyo has some really draconian rules of entry, podgy prospective diners will be weighed and ejected if found to be too fat.Following the lead of establishments in London and Melbourne, "The Amrita" - Sanskrit for 'immortality' - also has strict age restrictions, with only patrons between 18 and 60 allowed in, after they check in their clothes and put on paper underwear provided by the restaurant."If you are more than 15 kilos above the average weight for your height, we ask you refrain from making a reservation," a list of rules posted on the restaurant's website states, explaining that patrons could be weighed if they do not appear to be within the correct weight range.Guests found to be "overweight" will be refused entry to the restaurant, which opens on July 29, and will not be entitled to a refund, its website points out. All payments must be made in advance on an online booking page."In London they allow overweight patrons in and some guests complained they had a terrible experience," Amrita spokeswoman Miki Komatsu told AFP, denying that the establishment was guilty of discrimination."If fat people are allowed in it could be miserable for some guests," she added. "Guests can see the guidelines clearly on our homepage. We are aiming for a sort of Roman aesthetic, like the beautiful paintings you see in museums."The list of rules asks visitors not to "cause a nuisance to other guests" by touching or talking to fellow diners. Tattooed customers are barred from entry.Those who meet the restaurant's entry requirements will be asked to lock away mobile phones and cameras in a table-top box. Guests will fork out up to 80,000 yen ($750) for tickets entitling them to eat food served by muscle-bound men wearing g-strings and watch a dance show featuring male models.Meal tickets, not including a show, will cost from 14,000 to 28,000 yen depending on choice of menu.
DHAKA: A Hindu ashram worker was on Friday hacked to death by unidentified assailants while he was out for the morning walk, days after another priest was killed by suspected ISIS jihadists in the Muslim-majority nation which has seen a string of brutal attacks by Islamists on religious minorities and secular activists.   60-year-old Nityaranjan Pandey of Thakur Anukul Chandra Satsanga Paramtirtha Hemayetpurdham ashram was attacked by several assailants who hacked him in the neck, said ASP (Sadar Circle) Selim Khan.   Pandey, who was working at the ashram as a volunteer for the past 40 years, was attacked near the ashram in Pabna's Hemayetpur Upazila during his regular morning walk, Khan was quoted as saying by bdnews.   There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the murder.   This is the second such murder within three days. On June 7, a Hindu priest was hacked to death by three suspected Islamic State jihadists who nearly severed his head.   There have been systematic assaults in Bangladesh in recent months specially targeting minorities, secular bloggers, intellectuals and foreigners.   On Sunday, a Christian businessman was hacked to death by unidentified machete-wielding men near a church, hours after the wife of a top anti-terror police officer was shot dead by religious extremists.   In February, militants stabbed to death another Hindu priest at a temple in Bangladesh and shot and wounded a devotee who went to his aid.   In April, a liberal professor was brutally hacked to death by machete-wielding ISIS militants who slit his throat near his home in Rajshahi city. In the same month, a Hindu tailor was also hacked to death by ISIS militants in his shop and Bangladesh's first gay magazine editor was brutally murdered along with a friend in his flat in Dhaka by Islamists.   The ISIS and al-Qaida in Indian Peninsula have claimed responsibility for some of the attacks although the government denies their presence in Bangladesh.
LUXEMBOURG: Britain's interior minister, Theresa May, today said that remaining in the European Union would keep the country safer, as she arrived at her last EU ministerial before a referendum on whether to leave the bloc."I've been Home Secretary for six years now and I've been regularly attending these meetings. And I do so for a reason, because I am very clear that decisions taken here help to protect the United Kingdom's security and safety," May told reporters.Previously critical of the European Union, like many of her Conservative colleagues, May is backing Prime Minister David Cameron's "Remain" campaign ahead of the June 23 vote."As we look at issues like the movement of illegal firearms across Europe, the sharing of criminal records, reducing the pull factors leading people to want to migrate into Europe, I am very clear that the United Kingdom can take a lead," May said, listing many of the items on the agenda at Friday's meeting."Leave" campaigners say quitting the bloc would allow it to better control immigration and secure its borders, something May, a senior politician seen as a potential future prime minister, appeared to dispute."Taking control is not about walking away from the table. Taking control is about making sure that our voice is heard and that it counts. But we can only take the lead on these issues by sitting around the table in the first place," she said.The 28 EU ministers are due to agree on Friday more strict rules for gun purchase and ownership, a policy proposed after Islamist attacks in Paris killed 130 people in November, but one that has has since been watered down.
Varanasi: For Anjali, it was a normal Friday evening when she along with a friend left office after work. Halfway through, she realized that they were being followed by a bike-borne man who kept whistling and passing cheap comments. It was later that her friend informed her that the person had been leering at her and following her for months. Sadly, Anjali's (name changed) not a one-off case. A sample survey conducted by a human rights organization, Breakthrough, suggests that around 90% of women have fallen prey to sexual harassment in public spaces once in their lifetime. The survey witnessed participation of 749 youths between the age group of 15-24 years, and was carried out in UP, Delhi, Haryana, Karnataka, Bihar and Jharkhand. Vineet Tripathi, a spokesperson for the organisation, said, "The survey revealed that verbal comments and indecent acts were the most common forms of sexual harassment. Over 54% women experienced sexual harassment alone in UP. He said 81% girls from UP participated in the survey on sexual harassment. Majority of them experienced leering and staring at public spaces followed by stalking, obscene comments and online trolling. About 40% of the incidents of harassment occurred in market places followed by school/college and in buses. The survey revealed that 52% cases of harassment occurred at bus stops while 48% occurred returning home from school. About 63% of women believed that public places were somewhat safe for them while 35% clearly considered it as hubs of sexual harassment. The report further states that 83.5% women considered bus stops and railway stations as the most unsafe public places. Coordinator of training and community mobilization, Sunil, said that the organization has been working on sexual harassment and domestic violence in four districts -- Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Lucknow and Kanpur -- in the sate since 2006. "We have also sensitized this issue via adverts like Bell Bajao, online platform -- Share your story and another in the pipeline."During a round-table conference on media and gender issues, declining child sex ratio (CSR) and issues like child marriage were also highlighted. Through a powerpoint presentation, gender expert Nasiruddin showcased the lowest CSR of Varanasi among districts from east UP region. According to Census 2011, CSR is at its lowest ever with only 885 girls for every 1,000 boys. It dipped by 34 points as compared to the CSR as per census of 2001. "The significant gap in the number of males and females in the city points to widespread female foeticide, sex selection and sex selective abortion," shared Nasiruddin, adding that CSR was even worst in western part of UP. Similar facts surfaced in case of child marriage with over 6,37,783 boys and 13,43,837 girls below the age of 10 being married off in UP. In Varanasi itself, 9,286 boys and 15,808 girls of less than 10 years were married off.
WASHINGTON: President Barack Obama on Thursday endorsed his former top diplomat Hillary Clinton in the campaign to succeed him, throwing his full weight into the 2016 White House race with a video message declaring: "I'm with her."Obama's endorsement comes after a hard fought Democratic primary season, in which Clinton struggled against surprisingly tough leftist rival Bernie Sanders until she finally clinched the nomination just days ago."Tens of millions of Americans made their voices heard. Today I just want to add mine," Obama said in the video."I don't think there's ever been someone so qualified to hold this office.""I have seen her judgment. I've seen her toughness. I've seen her commitment to our values up close," Obama said of Clinton.The endorsement was long expected but is nonetheless a shot in the arm to the Clinton campaign and could end concerns about party unity after a bitter contest.The president earlier hosted Sanders in the Oval Office in a bid to heal those wounds.Obama's backing will give Clinton a potent surrogate on the campaign trail. After nearly eight years in the White House, Obama is still one of the country's most popular politicians.His approval ratings among black, Hispanic, young and liberal voters are stratospheric.Clinton welcomed the vote of confidence: "Honored to have you with me, @POTUS I'm fired up and ready to go!" she tweeted, echoing one of Obama's own campaign rallying cries from 2008.In that election Obama bested Clinton to become the first black president.They later made peace, as Clinton became Obama's first secretary of state.Now Clinton is trying to make history of her own by becoming the first female president.Standing in her way is bombastic businessman Donald Trump, who shocked the world by becoming the presumptive Republican presidential nominee.Clinton's campaign announced that a first joint campaign event with Obama would take place in Green Bay, Wisconsin on Wednesday, June 15.After meeting with Obama Thursday, Sanders avoided bowing out of the race, but said he would meet soon with Clinton to unite the Democratic Party as it takes on Trump.Obama was looking to play peace broker, coaxing Sanders to recognize Clinton as the party's presidential nominee.The meeting itself was a very public show of respect for Sanders' insurgent campaign.The two men strode along the West Wing colonnade, both laughing at one point, with the president placing his hand on Sanders' back as he opened the door to the Oval Office."I thought that Bernie Sanders brought enormous energy and new ideas," Obama said Wednesday. "I thought it made Hillary a better candidate."
BEIJING: Chinese authorities say eight people are missing and 10 confirmed dead in a pair of recent boating disasters.   The most recent incident occurred on Thursday afternoon when a dragon boat taking part in a traditional festival race in the eastern province of Fujian capsized on the famed Minjiang river with 36 people onboard.   As of Friday, all but three have been rescued, with more than 160 people and eight boats taking part in the effort, according to the provincial government rescue service.   China has sought to step up safety surrounding nationwide dragon boat racing on the Duanwu festivalthat falls near the summer solstice and commemorates the death of the poet and minister Qu Yuan in the third century BC.   Divers meanwhile retrieved the bodies of six people from Bailong lake in Sichuanprovince, bringing the death toll in that June 4 accident to 10 with five still missing.   The capsizing of the tourist pleasure boat with 18 people on board was blamed on a sudden storm that stirred up unusually large waves.
WASHINGTON: "Delete your account."Hillary Clinton's snarky tweet on Thursday to her White House rival Donald Trump was among the funniest of the campaign. Almost as funny as it was awkward.The message by the 68-year-old secretary of state — actually written by a young staffer, a Clinton aide told AFP — was in response to the latest broadside by Trump, who had commented on how "Obama just endorsed Crooked Hillary" on Thursday."He wants four more years of Obama - but nobody else does!" the presumptive Republican nominee added.When Clinton trolled back, social media exploded.  Delete your account.  https://t.co/Oa92sncRQY  — Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton)  June 9, 2016 Within two hours her message was retweeted 200,000 times, making it "the most retweeted tweet of the campaign!" according to Clinton's social media director Alex Wall.With "Delete your account," Clinton, who has struggled to connect with young voters, embraced the quick-witted dry humor of America's millennials.But it also triggered ferocious comebacks from her critics over use of a private email account while she served as America's top diplomat — a scandal she has been unable to shake.Republicans including Trump have savaged her for her judgment, saying she put US national security at risk, and have accused her of deleting key emails that she did not want Americans to see."@HillaryClinton, If anyone knows how to use a delete key, it's you," the chairman of the Republican National Committee, Reince Priebus, wrote in a stinging tweet of his own.Trump, known for his sharp tongue on social media, returned fire against Clinton, mocking her less-than-spontaneous attempt at hipness."How long did it take your staff of 823 people to think that up — and where are your 33,000 emails that you deleted?" he wrote.Clinton turned over some 30,000 emails to State Department officials after she stepped down from the job in 2013.But she also said she deleted more than 30,000 other emails that were of a personal nature and not related to her work as secretary of state.
LONDON: A pro-ISIS hacker group has placed nearly 8,000 Americans on its longest "kill list" that also includes names of Canadians, Australians and Europeans, a British media report said on Thursday.   The pro-ISIS United Cyber Caliphatehacker group released a list of 8,318 people, including their addresses and email contact details, on a secretive messaging app service.   It urged its supporters to "follow" those listed — and "kill them strongly to take revenge for Muslims", Daily Mirror reported.   It is one of the longest kill lists any ISIS-affiliated group has distributed to date and reportedly includes the names of 7,848 Americans, 312 Canadians, 39 Britons and 69 Australians.   The rest of the targets listed are reported to be from a variety of nations including Belgium, Brazil, China, Estonia, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, New Zealand, Trinidad and Tobago, South Korea and Sweden.   They are mostly military or government workers or people in the public eye, like royalty or celebrities.   The list, written in both English and Arabic, was uncovered by the media group Vocativ, which specializes in investigating the hidden side of the web.   It discovered it on a messaging app service called Telegram earlier this week.   Vocativ has refused to share further details of those named on the list.   According to a report by US intelligence firm Flashpoint, the United Cyber Caliphate was formed in April 2015 after a merger of several radical Islamic hacking groups.
ISLAMABAD: Pakistan's defence minister on Thursday apologised for his sexist remarks on the floor of the House referring to the opposition Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf party's woman chief whip a "tractor trolley", and asking her to "transform her masculine voice into a feminine one".A day earlier, defence minister Khawaja Muhammad Asif had used grossly derogatory language against PTI's Shireen Mazari, known for her hard-hitting criticism of government policies."Someone make this tractor trolley shut up!" Asif said.As if that wasn't enough, he added, "It will be better if you first transform your masculine voice into a more feminine one." Soon, several MPs from government benches were heard shouting: "Sit down aunty!" Rather than challenging the minister's indecent remarks, the speaker blamed Mazari, telling her off for not sitting down and remaining si lent when told. Some TV channels reported that Mazari appeared on the verge of tears."I told Khawaja Asif that if he had any `sharm-o-haya' he would know how to deal with women but he was `besharm and behaya'. Luckily , my voice louder than his," Mazari tweeted. People from across the country condemned Khwaja's behaviour, compelling him to tender a half-hearted apology which was rejected by Mazari besides the opposition.Responding to Asif 's outburst, PTI spokesman Naeemul Haq said, "Khwaja Asif should be hung upside down for his vulgarity and misbehaviour, and should be beaten with a shoe 25 times in the morning and 25 times in the evening." Nafeesa Shah, PPP MNA, said sexism is unacceptable. "If you continuously insult a colleague on her appearance, voice or gender, it's an insult of the entire assembly .As women, we felt insulted," Shah said, and reminded the Speaker of an incident in the British Parliament "when a lawmaker called David Cameron `dodgy Dave'.""The speaker ordered him to retract his statement and apologise. When he refused, he was thrown out of the house.We expect you, as speaker, to take similar action in this regard -in fact, to go one step ahead," she said.
SINGAPORE: SINGAPORE's Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loonghas defended the country's controversial decision to cut off civil servants' work computers from the Internet, calling the move "absolutely necessary" to keep information systems secure.   "Are we happy? I don't think so, because it will slow us down in terms of day-to-day productivity. In terms of security, safety of our systems, safety of our citizens and information concerning them, it's absolutely necessary," he told Singapore media during a visit to Myanmar.   Lee said that the defence and foreign affairs ministries already have separate computers for Internet access and for handling sensitive communications.   There was a huge backlash on Wednesday when The Straits Timesnewspaper reported that some 100,000 government computers would be affected by the Internet blockage, aimed at keeping data secure and preventing the spread of malware.   It quoted a cyber security official as saying that there were 16 attacks on government systems from unnamed sources in the last year, but the malware was detected and destroyed.   Malware is software specifically designed to disrupt or damage a computer system.   Civil servants would still be able to access the Internet on their personal devices such as tablets and mobile phones.   Public school teachers and lecturers would not be affected by the move, officials said.   Singapore is one of the world's most Internet-savvy societies, offering broadband speeds envied by many.   A wide range of government services are available online, including registering for marriage, filing complaints to the police and video consultations with doctors.   Singapore announced in 2014 it was stepping up IT security measures following attacks on a section of the prime minister's website, as well the website of the presidential residence.
MUMBAI: IDBI Bank has put on the block trademarks of newspapers Deccan Chronicle, Andhra Bhoomi, The Asian Age and Financial Chronicle. The trademarks are owned by Deccan Chronicle Holdings (DCHL), which has been declared a wilful defaulter by a dozen banks.IDBI, which had advanced over Rs 444 crore to DCHL against the trademarks, has made repeated attempts to put the trademarks on the block but its efforts were stymied by other lenders. The bank has now reached an agreement with the other lenders to allow the auction to go through. All the lenders will later decide on distribution of the amount recovered.IDBI proposes to sell the trademarks through an e-auction on June 24. The bank has fixed a reserve price of Rs 120 crore for the Deccan Chronicle trademark, Rs 3.5 crore for Andhra Bhoomi, Rs 18 crore for The Asian Age and Rs 3 crore for Financial Chronicle.The Hyderabad-based publishing group is currently controlled by lenders. Kolkata-based SREI has become a significant shareholder in the company with a 24% stake after its Rs 220 crore loan was not repaid.DCHL owes lenders more than Rs 4,000 crore. Banks have not been able to recover their loans as they are not backed by adequate security .Their attempts to sell the business have also not been successful as huge debt makes it unviable. Besides SREI, DCHL had also borrowed from Religare Finvest, which had filed a criminal complaint against the company.IDBI Bank said that DCHL, along with the other co-owners, had pledged the trademarks. "Due to failure on the part of DCHL to repay the financial assistance provided to it, IDBI Bank has decided to enforce the above-mentioned security by transferring to the highest bidder its interest on the trademarks," it said.In July 2014, the RBI had fined 12 banks Rs 1.5 crore for not following proper guidelines in advancing loans to DCHL. The fined lenders were Andhra Bank, Axis Bank, Canara Bank, Corporation Bank, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, IDBI Bank, IndusInd Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank, Ratnakar Bank, State Bank of Hyderabad, and Yes Bank.
SEOUL: South Korean military vessels have begun an operation to repel Chinese fishing boats illegally harvesting prized blue crabs from an area near Seoul's disputed sea boundary with North Korea.South Korea's Defense Ministry said on Friday that four naval and marine boats are in neutral waters around Ganghwa island for an operation approved by the United Nations Command that governs the zone.The operation comes days after South Korean fishermen towed away two Chinese fishing boats catching crabs south of the sea boundary with North Korea and handed them over to local South Korean authorities. North Korea said in response that South Korean fishing and naval vessels had invaded their territory.Seoul has called for Beijing to employ tougher measures against Chinese boats illegally fishing in South Korea-controlled waters.
Leipzig (Germany): In Amsterdam, the city of bicycles, a quiet revolution is taking place. Women - some single parents, others stay-at-home mothers, but all immigrants -are slowly taking a step towards becoming a part of the local way of life in Amsterdam. They are doing this by learning cycling.The "bicycle project", as it has started being called, is grabbing eyeballs in Europe. Started by Agartha Frimpong, herself an immigrant who came to Holland in 1984, the project has become a simple, yet highly effec tive way to assimilate thousands of immigrants coming to countries like Holland from cultural backgrounds that are starkly different. Frimpong, who knows all about the isolation of being "different" in a strange country -she came from Ghana -says the project was her way to make women get out of homes, where they had become "imprisoned"."Amsterdam is a city whe re the bicycle is not defined by economics, but rather the ease of use. Poor people don't use the bicycle, the rich do," says Frimpong, who admits that for several women who took part in the programme, the idea of cycling was not initially welcome. "Back home, most see the cycle as the transport option of the poor. So they were not convinced," said Edward Adusei, member of the city council of Amsterdam, which funds the project. However, for Amsterdam, the bicycle is the key to city life, a fact that the project helps the new residents understand."The bicycle not only makes them get out of their homes but also helps them connect with people outside. These women also talk and gossip, it has become a social tool," says Frimpong.Adusei says the project has become a tool of integration for the local administration."Once lessons are over, the participant is awarded a diploma. For many , it's the first certification or diploma they have got in their lives," says the city administrator. The project also helps the refugee community save money . Says Frimpong, "For many of them, even public transport is expensive. The cycle helps them avoid those expenses."The project was started by Frimpong with help from neighbours -"In the beginning, I used to go up to people and ask if they would lend their bicycles. Initially, only 23 women came for the classes, and they paid a small amount to cover the expenses of the hall where I took the classes," recalls Frimpong. The project saw better days once the city council got to know about it.
MUMBAI: RBI governor Raghuram Rajan attributed the populist anti-immigration upsurge in the US and Britain to the loss of middle-class jobs to technology. The governor said that it was a cause of concern even in emerging markets as it creates conditions for political turmoil."The emerging threat is: It is not the guy sitting in Bangalore but the robot next door which is going to take your job and this creates enormous anxiety in the middle class. And you can see this in the political dialogue that is taking place in the US as well as in the run-up to Brexit in Britain," said Rajan. In the US, presidential candidate Donald Trump has promised to build a wall on the border with Mexico, while UK is seeing support for Brexit on the back of anti-immigration sentiment."The broader sense is that middle-class jobs are disappearing either because of technology or globalization and as a result something has to be done. Nobody quite knows what, but the populists are saying, 'We have the answer: Keep out the immigrants and presumably keep out the robots also'," said Rajan.The governor pointed out that even in emerging markets, the middle class are not immune. "Every country set out first making textiles, apparels, moving out to simple assembly of electronic products and moving along the ladder of growth to higher order products. What will happen to countries like Vietnam, Philippines and India if that ladder for steady growth is removed because the export-led facet is just taken away because industrial countries can produce as cheap?" asked Rajan.According to him, "People at the upper end will do well in an economy that supports innovation. People at the lower end will manage because the jobs of the gardener and security guard will still be around, but not the middle-class jobs of clerks and factory workers."Pointing out at the referendum in Switzerland where citizens voted against a basic minimum salary for all, Rajan said, "If you have to pay people to exist and not work, what kind of social problems does that create? Moreover, if you are going to tax an enormous amount at the upper end, what kind of incentive problems does that create? Do we go back to the 60-70% tax levels of the 70s?"Rajan was speaking in Mumbai at the launch of a book 'The world in 2050' by Harinder Kohli. Asked to share his thoughts on the book's topic, Rajan said that it was easier to forecast for five years hence, as changes would be more linear.
NEW YORK: Nearly 100 paintings from the royal courts of Rajasthanand Punjab, many of them never exhibited publicly before, and dating back to the 16th and the early 19th century will be displayed at the prestigious Metropolitan Museum of Arthere.   The 'Divine Pleasures: Painting from India's Rajput Courts--The Kronos Collections' exhibit will run from June 14 through September at the Metropolitan Museum of Art (The Met).   The nearly 100 masterful paintings, show "compelling episodes" from Hindu epic and poetic literature of the Indian subcontinent.   Most of the paintings in the collection are a gift by Steven Kossak from his family's Kronos Collections.   Created mainly between the 16th and the early 19th century for the royal courts of Rajasthan and the Punjab Hills in northern India, the collection was assembled over nearly four decades by Kossak, formerly a curator in The Met's Department of Asian Art.   "These distinguished paintings constitute one of the premier collections of this material in private hands, and their eventual addition to The Met collection will transform the Museum's holdings of Rajput painting," The Met director and CEO Thomas Campbell said.   The exhibition will be organised into three major sections--Early Rajput and Rajasthan, early Pahari (Punjab Hills), and later Pahari.   Within each room, the paintings will be shown in relation to the literary traditions of Indian Hinduism, the museum said.   "Rajput court painting was mainly intended for royal delectation, to amplify through the artistic fantasy manifest in the pictures, well-known religious, quasi-religious, and secular texts and subjects. The power and magic of the images transcends the subjects they portray," it added.   A galaxy of stylistic expression would be demonstrated in the exhibition through compelling examples of the Early Rajput Style; the later schools of Bikaner, Bundi, Kishangarh, Kota, and Mewar; as well as many of the small courts of the Punjab Hills: Bahu, Bahsoli, Bislalpur, Chamba, Guler, Kangra, Mandi, Mankot, and Nurpur.   Painted on paper in opaque watercolor and ink, the paintings are often heightened with gold and silver.   The exhibition is organised by Navina Haidar, curator, and Courtney Stewart, senior research assistant, of The Met's Department of Islamic Art.
NEW DELHI: The fall in global commodity prices, especially oil, has hit India's exports to Africa as a currency crisis has shut out some of the market for products such as automobiles and auto components. It has also put exporters in a tight spot with some of them complaining of delayed payments.The uncertainty has prompted the government to begin discussions on an alternate payment mechanism to ensure that the dues of Indian exporters are protected. The ministry of external affairs is discussing the possibility of opening an escrow account with countries such as Nigeria, where the exporters will have the first charge on oil dues that are paid to the African country, sources told TOI. "These are preliminary discussions and we may rope in Exim Bank and African Development Bank if the Nigerian government agrees," said a source. The mechanism may be similar to the window like the rupee-rouble account of the 1980s or the recent mechanism with Iran, where payments were hit by sanctions imposed by the US.The global slump in commodity prices, such as oil and metals, has hit mineral-dependent economies across the globe, while importing countries such as India have benefited. Low prices have meant lower dollar inflows and put pressure on the balance of payments position of these countries. Nigeria, Africa's largest economy, is on the brink of a recession - oil production has dropped to the lowest in three decades, budget deficit has widened to a record and the economy contracted for the first time since 2004 in the first quarter. Foreign currency reserves have dropped to $26 billion, the lowest in more than a decade.Exporters are also complaining of problems in other countries such as Angola, Ethiopia and Ghana, said Ajay Sahai, director general of exporters lobby group FIEO. The payment problems, which has resulted in some trade getting routed via Dubai, has also pushed up default risk premium and the government is trying put in place a lower premium regime for SMEs exporting to Africa."The dollar crisis is a serious cause for concern, and there have been no exports to countries such as Angola, Egypt and Ethiopia for the past one year. Other affected countries are Algeria, Nigeria and South Africa," said Sugato Sen, deputy DG of Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (Siam). Africa accounts for around a third of India's vehicle exports, which includes two-wheelers, three-wheelers, cars, utility vehicles and trucks and buses. Exports of vehicles to Africa were estimated at around $3 billion last year.The auto industry body has proposed a mechanism similar to the one that MEA is discussing. "We believe that China has entered into renminbi swap agreements with more than 34 countries and is working towards inclusion of its currency as a convertible foreign exchange. There will be serious threat to Indian exports due to this," Sen said.The government's initial plan is, however, focused on Nigeria, which is a major source of oil import for India and seen as an alternative to crude from West Asia. The crisis comes at a time when India is trying to deepen its ties with Africa to reduce the influence of China, which has had a first-mover advantage. "It is easier to work out a deal with Nigeria given the large trade deficit. Once we finalize a plan we can work out an arrangement with Ecowas," an official said. Ecowas, or the Economic Community Of West African States, is a grouping of 15 countries including Nigeria and Ghana.
LONDON: The threat of a terrorist attack using nuclear material is the highest since the end of the Cold War, with ISISactively trying to acquire weapons of mass destruction, according to a leading international think-tank on proliferation.   "ISIS has already carried out numerous chemical weapons attacks in Syria; we know it wants to go further by carrying out a nuclear attack in the heart of Europe. This, combined with poor levels of security at a host of nuclear research centres in the former Soviet Union mean the threat of a possible 'dirty-bomb' attack on a Western capital is high," said Moshe Kantor, the president of the International Luxembourg Forum.   The warning from the organisation, whose members include former government ministers and senior officials from Russia and the West, comes amid deep apprehension that jihadists will attempt to carry out atrocities during the impending Euro 2016 football championship in France. The forum is not suggesting that a terrorist nuclear attack is likely to take place during the tournament, but Dr Kantor pointed out that the Islamist cell which carried out the Brussels attacks two months ago were believed to be monitoring workers and security arrangements at a Belgian nuclear facility.   "Their previous documented attempts to gain access to a nuclear power station in Belgium are evidence of their intent," he stated at an international conference in Amsterdam. "The terrorists don't necessarily have to use a 'dirty bomb'. We are not just talking about stolen nuclear material, using conventional explosives in a nuclear plant, such as smuggling in a bomb, would have catastrophic consequences."   Former British defence secretary Des Browne, a member of the forum and vice-chairman of the Nuclear Threat Initiative (NTI), said the threat of nuclear terrorism was a highly significant and complex issue which needed a unified international response. "It shouldn't be a surprise that if terrorists get hold of nuclear material they will try to use it, we also know that they are seeking such material, there were reports, for example, of ISIS getting hold of uranium when they captured Mosul," he said.   "It isn't that hard to build a 'dirty bomb'. They may not kill that many people with such a bomb, but the effect on the environment, the infrastructure and the psychological impact on people would be devastating. They can also use cyber warfare to target a nuclear facility."   The meeting in Amsterdam marks the 30th anniversary of the Reykjavik summit between US President Ronald Regan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev which paved the way for a historic missile treaty between the US and the Soviet Union. It comes after a nuclear conference hosted by President Barack Obama in Washington earlier this year which focused on the threat of a terrorist attack using nuclear material by ISIS and other extremist groups following the Paris and Brussels attacks.   The President's deputy national security adviser, Ben Rhodes, said: "We know that terrorist organisations have the desire to get access to these raw materials and to have a nuclear device."   Around 2,000 metric tons of highly enriched uranium and separated plutonium, that is being used internationally in civilian and military programmes, could be turned into a nuclear bomb if stolen or diverted, said the White House. But fewer than half of the 50 countries attending the summit had even agreed to secure their sources of radiological material.   President Vladimir Putinrefused to attend the Washington meeting with the Kremlin claiming it was an American attempt to take over the system of securing radioactive material. It was revealed last autumn that four attempts by Russian-linked gangs in Moldova, a former Soviet state, to sell nuclear material to terrorists, including ISIS, has been foiled. Evidence laid before the courts by Moldovan authorities showed that the smugglers had tried to exploit a breakdown in cooperation between Russia and the West on security issues.   Pakistani President Nawaz Sharif also cancelled his Washington visit after an Islamist terrorist bombing killed 72 people. His country, which has a nuclear arsenal, and figures in the military and security establishment that may be sympathetic to jihadists, is viewed by analyst as a prime source for a terrorist device.   President Obama had repeatedly stressed the danger of nuclear terrorism and his emphasis on nuclear disarmament was an important factor in him winning the Nobel peace prize. Months into his presidency, he said in a much publicised speech in Prague that nuclear weapons were "the most dangerous legacy of the Cold War".   But in Amsterdam yesterday, Dr Kantor held that the current impasse on nuclear arms control was due to the stance of Washington. "The United States' refusal to discuss limits for its missile defence programme is a bottleneck for talks, which impedes the entire process of controlling nuclear weapons and heightens the threat of a nuclear incident. If we take the matter seriously, there should be no 'sacred cows' either among defensive or offensive weapons," he argued.   In a video message to the conference, Mr Gorbachev, said: "We cannot be satisfied with the current situation, the window to a nuclear-free world first opened in Reykjavik, is being shut and locked before our eyes...The danger of nuclear weapons proliferation has grown to a large extent for this reason."
BENGALURU: UK-based government lender Student Loans Company (SLC) has put its Rs 328-crore IT outsourcing contract with HCL Technologies under review.SLC had signed the IT transformation deal with HCL in 2014. It was worth £34 million (Rs 328 crore) over 5 years, with the possibility of it being extended for another 5 years and the contract size rising by a further £12 million (Rs 114 crore). The deal puts the spotlight on the complexities and risks involved in pulling off huge transformation programmes that involve a consortium of vendors tuning up legacy systems.As part of the contract, HCL had to work with two other partners, Deloitte and Misys, to replace SLC's core systems to cater to student loan services and expanding volumes of loans. HCL led the project as the systems integration partner. Deloitte was the implementation partner and Misys the provider of the core banking software. SLC was set up in 1989 to provide loans and grants to students in universities and colleges in the UK. The objective was to support borrowers who seek to meet their repayment obligations and stronger action against those who do not, delivering a better return on public investment. The spokesperson of the Department for Business Innovation & Skills, which oversees SLC, said SLC is reviewing its contract with the IT supplier to ensure an outcome which delivers the best value for money for the taxpayer.When contacted, HCL Technologies said it has already delivered a part of the implementation phase. "The overall success of this project is beyond the singular scope and control of HCL. The business risk impact on HCL is insignificant," it said.Peter Bendor-Samuel, chief executive of US-based Everest Research, said SLC had aged IT systems which were inhibiting its ability to compete and adequately serve its customers.
JAKARTA: Indonesia's army will give "semi-military" weapons training to people including unemployed men and "gangsters" on the island of Bali, a spokesman said on Friday, under a programme that has raised concern about the re-emergence of military influence.      President Joko Widodo's administration has become increasingly uneasy about the military-run "Bela Negara" or "Defend the Nation" programme aimed at guarding against "foreign influences" like communism, religious extremism and homosexuality.      Over the last few months, the programme has gained momentum, partly in reaction to support from Widodo for an investigation into an anti-communist purge in 1965. The suggestion of an investigation has angered some retired military men, many of whom say the purge was justified.      The training on the resort island of Bali was apparently the first to include street thugs, and was aimed partly at making them "good citizens", a military spokesman said.      "The introduction to weapons is part of the material so the participants are not bored ... and so they can feel what it's like in the military," said Hotman Hutahaean, spokesman for Bali's military command.            "There will be other material ... like marching and physical training ... so the public can know their rights and obligations, especially gangsters, because they need to be prepared to be good citizens," he said.      Hutahaean said the training of the "gangsters" would begin in August and he expected about 100 people to enrol altogether. He did not elaborate on what he meant by gangsters but said no one with a criminal record would be accepted.      The proposal has raised questions.      "They are basically empowering young guys with murky backgrounds who will go around playing army," said defence expert Yohanes Sulaiman.      "Arming civilians or even training them this way is not a good idea unless you organise them properly and have laws and regulations to control it."      The defence ministry launched the "Bela Negara" programme last year to counter what it calls an erosion of nationalistic values. The aim is to mould millions of civil servants, doctors, students and others into a civilian defence corps.      But many Indonesian view "Bela Negara" as an attempt by the military, which ruled for decades, to claw back some of the influence it lost after it was forced out of politics when strongman Suharto was ousted in 1998.      About 1.8 million people nationwide have signed up for the voluntary programme and some classes are underway.      Officials insist weapons training will be limited to teaching how to assemble guns and familiarising participants with weapons through photographs.
PARIS: President Francois Hollande will formally sign the Paris climate agreement on Wednesday, June 15, making France the first industrialised nation to ratify the landmark accord, Environment minister Segolene Royal said on Friday.      France's senate adopted a bill authorising the government to ratify the agreement on Wednesday after a near unanimous vote by the lower house in May, Royal told a carbon pricing forum in Paris.      Royal, who is the current chair of the United Nations climate talks COP21, said several other industrialised nations were expected to ratify the agreement by the end of the year.      The Paris climate agreement aimed at limiting global warming was reached by nearly 200 nations last December in the French capital.
CHENNAI: Umesh Sachdev, co-founder of Chennai headquartered Uniphore Software Systems is the only Indian to be selected by the Times magazine to its 2016's list of "10 millennials who are changing the world".Sachdev has been selected for his work on 'building a phone that can understand almost any language'.Sachdev, along with Ravi Saraogi, founded Uniphore Software Systems.Uniphore's products, which include a virtual assistant that is able to process more than 25 global languages and 150 dialects, are being used by over five million people, mostly in India.Time said through the software, Sachdev is building bridges and helping hundreds of millions of people cross the divide between the digital and the real world by harnessing the power of speech.
Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) are exiting stocks of healthcare companies in a big way. After investing nearly $3 billion in 2015, FIIs have turned negative on the healthcare sector selling stocks to the tune of $392 million so far in 2016. They also pared their holdings in financial services companies during the year.FIIs sold nearly 70 lakh shares in pharma major Cipla during the quarter ending March. Overseas investors brought down their stake in the company from 10.02% in December to 9.15% in March. The stock had hit a 52-week low of 458.25 on May 25.Similarly, FIIs pared their holdings in Lupin, another blue-chip pharma company, from 37.03% in December to 35.14% for the quarter ending March by offloading nearly 1.26 crore shares. They reduced their exposure in Dr Reddy's Laboratories by selling about 31 lakh shares during the period."Emerging markets growth for large cap pharma companies was hit by currency crisis and political turmoil (in those geographies). As a result they registered lower than expected growth (on an overall basis)," analysts tracking the sector said. The growth in EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation) were also affected for some top-notch pharma companies.FIIs bet big on the healthcare sector during 2015. Their investments in the sector jumped nearly ten- fold in value terms during the year. The healthcare segment also accounted for substantial chunk of net FII inflows into stock markets in 2015.Financial services firms, which includes public sector banks that have been hit hard by the increase in stressed assets, have also got a big thumbs down from FIIs. The sector attracted FII inflows of just $98 million so far in 2016, data compiled by share depository NSDL and Kotak Institutional Equities showed.FIIs invested heavily in stocks of financial services firms in 2014 having made purchase to the tune of $5 billion in the year. Their interest in the sector came down with inflows dwindling to $911 million in 2015. Telecommunication services firms too have seen a drop in investor appetite. FIIs sold stocks to the tune of $178 million in telecom companies so far in 2016.Stocks of companies in the energy sector, however, continue to remain favourites with FIIs. The sector has attracted the interest of overseas investors for the third consecutive year. FIIs inflows into energy stocks stood at $519 million so far in 2016.
CHENNAI: Aftermarket automotive parts company TVS Automotive Solutions on Thursday said it has acquired majority stake in an automobile ecommerce startup, a big data analytics firm and acquired an internet of things (IoT) firm spending nearly 75 crore.The company which acquired majority stake in Delhi-based aftermarket website Jazzmyride.com which offers autoparts, accessories, formed a partnership with analytics firm Hansa Equity for big data analysis and acquired complete equity of Redsun Consulting, a Bengaluru-based internet of things start-up."We are investing around 75 crore. We are expecting these businesses to generate a revenue of 250 crore in the first three years," G Srinivasa Raghavan, executive director, of the 600 crore TVS Automobile Solutions.The services of all the three would be integrated under one platform, both as an mobile app and on the web for customers to choose them.
TOKYO: Japan's first "naked restaurant" opens in TOKYO next month with draconian rules of entry -- podgy prospective diners will be weighed and ejected if found to be too fat.      Following the lead of establishments in London and Melbourne, "The Amrita" -- Sanskrit for 'immortality' -- also has strict age restrictions, with only patrons between 18 and 60 allowed in, after they check in their clothes and put on paper underwear provided by the restaurant.      "If you are more than 15 kilos above the average weight for your height, we ask you refrain from making a reservation," a list of rules posted on the restaurant's website states, explaining that patrons could be weighed if they do not appear to be within the correct weight range.      Guests found to be "overweight" will be refused entry to the restaurant, which opens on July 29, and will not be entitled to a refund, its website points out. All payments must be made in advance on an online booking page.      The list of rules asks visitors not to "cause a nuisance to other guests" by touching or talking to fellow diners. Tattooed customers are barred from entry.      Those who meet the restaurant's entry requirements will be asked to lock away mobile phones and cameras in a table-top box.      The restaurant owners were not immediately available for comment when contacted by AFP.      Guests will fork out up to 80,000 yen ($750) for tickets entitling them to eat food served by muscle-bound men wearing g-strings and watch a dance show featuring male models.      Meal tickets, not including a show, will cost from 14,000 to 28,000 yen depending on choice of menu.
WASHINGTON: The US has asked Pakistan to ensure that its territory is not used for planning attacks in India, after Prime Minister Narendra Modisaid terrorism is being "incubated in India's neighbourhood".   "This is one of the steps that the US is encouraging Pakistan to do for the improvement of its relations with India," a state department spokesman said on Thursday.   "We believe that Pakistan and India stand to benefit from practical cooperation and encourage direct dialogue aimed at increasing cooperation and reducing tensions," state department deputy spokesman Mark Toner said.   "And that includes steps by Pakistan to ensure that its territory is not used to plan attacks in India and that Pakistan takes steps to address or to go after, I think, all the terrorist groups that are currently using its territory," Toner said.   "That continues to be an area of collaboration and cooperation that we pursue with Pakistan is its counterterrorism operations," he said in response to a question.   Responding to a question, Toner said Pakistan was one of the issues discussed between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Barack Obama .   "Certainly that was one of the discussions, frankly, that was raised at the - or one of the issues, frankly, that was raised in discussions with Prime Minister Modi. They talked about a wide range of regional issues, in fact," he said.   "Our bilateral relations with India and Pakistanare separate and stand on their own merits, and so I don't think we - it's not prudent for us to view our security cooperation in the region in kind of a zero-sum game - or zero-sum terms, rather.   "I think it's important for the countries of the region that they all have constructive security relationships with each other. And that's Pakistan, that's India, and it's also Afghanistan," Toner said.   In his address to the joint sitting of US Congress here, Modi had said terrorism has to be fought with "one voice" as he commended the American Parliament for sending out a clear message by refusing to "reward" those who preach and practice terrorism for political gains, an apparent reference to the blocking of sale of 8 F-16 fighter jets to Pakistan.
AHMEDABAD: CII and Young Indians - Ahmedabad chapter has under its "Entrepreneurship & Innovation" vertical organised the Session II of the "The Super Startups-Inspiring Startupreneurs". Two social Startups named G-Auto and Ability on Wheels showcased their presentations at CII House. Both these startups are improving our quality of life by providing services that cater to the masses and giving an extra edge to the Startups wave said Mr Dhruv Shah, Chairman, Yi Ahmedabad Chapter. He added it's not our disabilities but our ability that counts; the problem in the society is people see disability before they see you. "The Super Startups" series shall be inviting various successful startups every 15 days at CII House. The selected successful startups can share their ideas, products & stories with the Young Indian Members, Industry looking for new ideas, Angel Investors, Students and Educational Institutes. "Super Startup" was started by Young Indians (Yi) at Ahmedabad to stimulate ecosystem in Gujarat. One of the social start-ups G-Auto Project idea was conceived and mentored by Nirmal Kumar, a management graduate from IIM-A and social entrepreneur by Profession. G-Auto has network of 21000 auto rickshaw drivers across Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar, Rajkot, Surat and Delhi. Ability on Wheels is the brain child of Harish Jach is specially-abled person with a passion for driving. Ability on Wheels provides Mobility Services & Solutions to the specially-abled people of the country by forming an NGO "Ability on Wheels". As part of the Startupreneurs best start-ups will get to pitch their ideas to CII Members & Industry Members. This shall culminate into a larger event where top 5 startups will get a chance to pitch their idea to a Jury consisting of High Level CEOs from CII & Yi.
WASHINGTON: The US has asked Pakistan to ensure that its territory is not used for planning attacks in India, after Prime Minister Narendra Modisaid terrorism is being "incubated in India's neighbourhood".   "This is one of the steps that the US is encouraging Pakistan to do for the improvement of its relations with India," a state department spokesman said on Thursday.   "We believe that Pakistan and India stand to benefit from practical cooperation and encourage direct dialogue aimed at increasing cooperation and reducing tensions," state department deputy spokesman Mark Toner said.   "And that includes steps by Pakistan to ensure that its territory is not used to plan attacks in India and that Pakistan takes steps to address or to go after, I think, all the terrorist groups that are currently using its territory," Toner said.   "That continues to be an area of collaboration and cooperation that we pursue with Pakistan is its counterterrorism operations," he said in response to a question.   Responding to a question, Toner said Pakistan was one of the issues discussed between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Barack Obama .   "Certainly that was one of the discussions, frankly, that was raised at the - or one of the issues, frankly, that was raised in discussions with Prime Minister Modi. They talked about a wide range of regional issues, in fact," he said.   "Our bilateral relations with India and Pakistanare separate and stand on their own merits, and so I don't think we - it's not prudent for us to view our security cooperation in the region in kind of a zero-sum game - or zero-sum terms, rather.   "I think it's important for the countries of the region that they all have constructive security relationships with each other. And that's Pakistan, that's India, and it's also Afghanistan," Toner said.   In his address to the joint sitting of US Congress here, Modi had said terrorism has to be fought with "one voice" as he commended the American Parliament for sending out a clear message by refusing to "reward" those who preach and practice terrorism for political gains, an apparent reference to the blocking of sale of 8 F-16 fighter jets to Pakistan.
ISLAMABAD: Pakistan's government is meeting with senior US officials to discuss the fallout from a May 21 drone attack that killed Taliban chief Mullah Akhtar Mansour, while the family of the taxi driver who died alongside Mansour is demanding justice.      Pakistan's foreign ministry says that Peter Lavoy, head of Washington's South Asia desk at the National Security Council, and Richard Olson, US special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, are meeting on Friday with Pakistani civilian and military leaders in the first high-level exchange since the drone strike.      Pakistan considers the drone strike a violation of sovereignty, while the US accuses Pakistan of providing safe havens for militants.      The family of Mohammed Azam, the taxi driver, is outraged that no one has publicly acknowledged that an innocent man died in the drone strike.
Sovereign gold bond trading will commence on the National Stock Exchange of India from Monday, post clearances from the RBI and SEBI. The product will be launched in the cash segment of NSE. This will ensure ease of trading, wider reach, no additional procedure for regular investor to buy and sell through the exchange."NSE is expecting large retail acceptance as this product is a better substitute for physical gold. We expect the product to work well keeping in mind NSE's retail distribution capabilities", said Huzan Mistry, Strategic Business Head- Currency & Fixed Income, NSE. Investors will get returns linked to gold price. Additionally a fixed interest rate of 2.75% p.a. will be payable semi-annually. The bonds will carry sovereign guarantee both on the redemption amount and the interest payable.Minimum investment size in the secondary market will be as low as 1 gm. Reference price for trading will be the gold with 0.999 purity and as published by IBJA. The tenor of the Bond is 8 years with a put option available from the 5th year.
Vijayawada: Some areas in Krishna and West Godavari districts experienced 'fish rain' in the last few days. It turned out to be a windfall for the inhabitants of Tanuku in West Godavari district and quite a few people in this district too when live fish poured in from the sky. Alert locals were seen collecting fish from the streets. OSRU Bhanukumar, an expert in oceanography from Andhra University and environmentalist, attributed the rare phenomenon to the small-scale tornadoes to which the state has become vulnerable thanks to fast-disappearing greenery and rather unusual moisture levels. A vortex of violently rotating winds were observed over the Kolleru lake in areas like Peddintlamma temple during the recent cyclone, it is reported. "Tornadoes resembling a funnel-shaped cloud have the tendency to suck in water and fish too might have found their way into the system," observed Bhanukumar.Trees making way for concrete structures on a massive scale provides conducive environment for the low-scale tornadoes in the state and such signs have been observed in Kadapada district. "Water sprouts were witnessed over the Godavari river near Kothagudem area," he explained.April, May and June are reportedly susceptible to tornadoes in the state, of late. According to Bhanukumar, tornadoes leave a trail of destruction when they hit human settlements. "There have been instances wherein carts along with bullocks were flung away for half a km in Odisha. Similarly, the tornadoes also let the fish fly in the sky up to a km or so before they are flung down," he added.
NEW DELHI: Rabo Equity Advisors, investment advisors for India Agri Business Fund II, has invested around Rs 100 crore in Indian agro-chemical player Parijat Industries for acquisition of a minority stake.The announcement comes a week after Rabo Equity invested in Cremica Food Industries, a North India-based condiments company. Parijat is looking to achieve sales of Rs 1500 crore by 2021and expand its domestic distribution network to 10,000 retail points in three years from 4,500 at present."We believe that under the leadership of the Anand Family, Parijat shall be a leading agro-chemical player in the high potential sector. We are especially excited at the company's export forays and new products expected to be launched in the domestic market over the next few years," said Rajesh Srivastava, chairman and MD of Rabo Equity Advisors.India Agri Business Fund II is a $200 million PE fund targeted at investing in Indian food and agri-business companies in India across the value chain.It is sponsored by Rabobank along with CDC Group and Asian Development Bank.
Visakhapatnam: Nearly 40 per cent of the pet dogs owners in Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) do not have valid licence from the corporation's veterinary department. According to sources in the department, the city has nearly 10,000 pet dogs of which over 4,000 are said to be owned without a licence. The sources further added that the licences of owners of nearly 50 per cent of the pets were not renewed as on date.According to the rules and regulations of rearing pets by citizens, a pet owner is supposed to obtain a licence from the GVMC and renew it every year. GVMC issues the licence to the pet dog owner after conducting thorough health inspection and administration of vaccines to the dog.However, this rule is not being followed due to lack of interest and awareness among pet owners and lackadaisical attitude of the GVMC in verifying the licence status of pet dogs.V Venkateswara Rao, animal husbandry department joint director for Visakhapatnam district, said there are many benefits of the licence including identification of the dog and maintaining its health status by checking vaccination, particularly for rabies at the time of issuance of the licence.The officer said some dogs like German Shepherds and Alsatians should not be reared in closed circuits like apartments. The dogs are watch dogs and require vast space. Small dogs are suitable for apartments and closed buildings, he said.
NEW DELHI: The Indian biscuit market is proving to be one tough cookie for evergreen products such as Marie and salt and non-salt crackers. While sales of these popular categories are sliding, cookies have emerged as the largest and fastest growing category.In 2015-16, the cookie segment, which includes brands such as Mondelez's Bournvita biscuits, Britannia's Good Day and ITC's Delishus, contributed 30% to the overall market and grew by more than 13% over the previous year. In contrast, Marie witnessed growth of 7.9% in the same period compared to 11.9% in 2014-15, while salt crackers declined 3.3% in 2015-16 compared to a growth rate of 3.2% in 2014-15, according to market research firm Nielsen."The cookie segment is growing because most people in India see biscuits as a nutritional supplement," said Arvind Singhal, founder of retail consultancy Technopak. "Apart from having biscuits with tea in the morning, they also use it as a snack at different times during the day. This is the single most important reason why Parle-G glucose biscuits has become the largest biscuit brand in the country."While Parle-G is the dominant player with over 12% market share in the Rs 25,000-crore domestic biscuit market, Good Day - which falls in the cookie category - is the second largest player with around 9% market share. Mondelez, maker of Cadbury chocolates and Oreo cookies, is betting big on the market that is growing by over 7% year-on-year. It recently launched Bournvita biscuits in the cookie category."We see tremendous opportunity for growth in the Indian biscuit market," said Chandramouli Venkatesan, MD of Mondelez India. "In terms of volume, India has emerged as one of the top three markets for Oreo, the world's largest-selling biscuit."As top biscuit makers in the country battle it out in the cookie segment, Kolkata-based cigarette and FMCG major ITC is eyeing a niche category, which is poised to explode. "The health category in the biscuit market that includes digestive biscuits is pegged at around Rs 400 crore at present and growing by 15-16% every year," said V L Rajesh, divisional chief executive of ITC's food business. "However, it will gain momentum going forward."To compete with Britannia Nutri Choice, McVities Digestive and Parle Simply Good, the company recently launched Sunfeast Farmlite digestive biscuits. Along with atta, biscuits contribute a significant chunk to ITC's revenues for its food business, said Rajesh. As for cookies, he is leaving no stone unturned and is piloting a premium variant called Expressions that is being retailed at very few shops for Rs 100.
LONDON, (BSW) -  VocaLink today announces its new "Pay by Bank app" service is soon to be available to customers of four of the UK's biggest banks.  David Yates, CEO VocaLink, said, "We're delighted to announce our partnership with four of the UK's biggest financial institutions, alongside the growing number of retailers who are supporting Pay by Bank app. This service is a convenient way to pay with your mobile and we look forward to working with a number of high street brands to bring Pay by Bank app to millions of UK banking customers. With four of the UK's biggest banks now committed to Pay by Bank app, we look forward to the remaining banks coming on board in the near future."  Whether users are registering for the first time or paying with a mobile, "Pay by Bank app" uses the bank's own security methods to verify the user. In addition to the trusted bank security, "Pay by Bank app" provides a simple and convenient way for users to make a purchase online, via an app or in store. Customers will be able to see their account balances before they pay, helping to manage their money more easily.   Stephen Noakes, Managing Director Retail Customer Products at Lloyds Banking Group said, "An increasing number of our customers want to bank and transact on the go and we want our customers to have the choice of the most convenient and secure payment innovations available. With more and more shopping taking place online we want to offer our customers a service that is a safe and secure way to spend. Pay by Bank app benefits from the same high security as your mobile banking app and makes shopping and paying online more convenient."  Many major high street retailers have already confirmed their support for the service as an easy and safe way for consumers to pay for goods and services instantly. "Pay by Bank app" allows money to move instantly from a customer account to a merchant account through real-time payments. Payments work through secure digital "tokens", meaning customers never reveal any of their financial details (including account details) to merchants when they are shopping.   Darren Foulds, Managing Director for Pingit at Barclays, which will be the first bank to launch Pay by Bank app payments from autumn 2016, said, "Mobile banking is the first choice for payments for an increasing number of people. With the introduction of the Pay by Bank app features, mobile payments to merchants are going to be even simpler and more secure for customers. We can't wait to launch the service, and give our millions of Pingit users the opportunity to pay a range of retailers instantly without having to input or share their bank account details."  About VocaLink and Zapp  Zapp is the payment innovation team within the VocaLink Group. VocaLink provides and operates the Faster Payments Service on behalf of the Faster Payments Scheme, the Account Switching platform, Bacs and the Direct Debit Scheme. VocaLink also connects the world's busiest network of over 70,000 ATMs through the LINK scheme. In the UK, VocaLink process over 90% of salaries, more than 70% of household bills and almost all state benefits. In 2015, VocaLink processed over 11 billion transactions with a value of £6 trillion.  Safe and secure payments are core to VocaLink's operation, and the new Pay By Bank app mobile payment service puts security at its heart. VocaLink's technology lets consumers make near real-time payments on their phones and tablets, whenever they see the "Pay by Bank app" paymark.  For more information on Zapp visitzapp.co.uk  For more information on VocaLink visitvocalink.com      Contact  Redleaf for VocaLink Charlie Ansdell/Paula Nugent +44 (0) 20 7382 4762 vocalinkcomms@redleafpr.com    This material is not an afp editorial material and AFP shall not bear responsability for the accuracy of its content. In case you have any questions about the content, kindly refer to the contact person mentioned in the text of the release.  End of the Business Wire's Press Release
London, June 10, 2016 (AFP) -  European stock markets slumped on Friday following falls in Asia and on Wall Street, as traders expressed unease over central bank policy and Britain's looming referendum on Eu membership.  After a healthy run of gains for stocks helped in part by a recovering oil market, European indices were down between 1.5 and 2.0 percent, a day after European Central Bank chief Mario Draghi called for political action to help kickstart eurozone growth.  His comments were taken as a sign that the ECB's arsenal is running low following its unprecedented stimulus programme launched this week.  Federal Reserve boss Janet Yellen has meanwhile indicated that the US central bank is unlikely to lift interest rates until the final quarter of 2016 following weak jobs data from the world's biggest economy.  Adding to markets' unrest are fears that a Brexit vote on June 23 could unleash a wave of turmoil across world indices.  "The economic impact of the EU vote is riding high in investors' minds as they try to assess how it will affect the UK, European and global market outlook over the coming months," said Dave Jeal, head of investment products at stockbroker Interactive Investor.  "The direction of the next US interest rate decision looks clear, but the uncertainty over it's timing and continuing concerns over global market growth, added to the Brexit decision, make this a time for more cautious investors to take a back seat," he added.  Around 0945 GMT, London's benchmark FTSE 100 index was down 1.5 percent compared with Thursday's close.  In the eurozone, Frankfurt's DAX 30 tumbled 2.0 percent and the Paris CAC 40 shed 1.6 percent.  Europe's main markets had already retreated by more than 1.0 percent on Thursday as Draghi again urged politicians to step up in efforts to breathe new life into the tepid eurozone economy.  The losses carried over into US trading on Thursday and Asian deals Friday, with Hong Kong's main index giving up 1.2 percent.  In foreign exchange Friday, the euro dropped against the dollar, which in turn was lower versus the yen.  The British pound was steady against the euro but down versus the dollar.  Market focus was starting to turn toward next week's monetary policy meetings of the US and Japanese central banks.  The Bank of Japan earlier this year adopted a negative interest rate policy, following a similar move in 2015 by the ECB, in a bid to nurture investment. But the move has been criticised as being ineffective.    - Key figures around 0945 GMT -    London - FTSE 100: DOWN 1.5 percent at 6,136.45 points  Frankfurt - DAX 30: DOWN 2.0 percent at 9,886.74  Paris - CAC 40: DOWN 1.6 percent at 4,333.61  EURO STOXX 50: DOWN 1.9 percent at 2,933.61  Tokyo - Nikkei 225: DOWN 0.4 percent at 16,601.35 (close)  Hong Kong - Hang Seng: DOWN 1.2 percent at 21,042.64 (close)  Shanghai - Composite: Closed for a public holiday  New York - Dow: DOWN 0.1 percent at 17,985.19 (close)  Euro/dollar: DOWN at $1.1298 from $1.1315 late Thursday  Dollar/yen: DOWN at 106.82 yen from 107.10 yen  Euro/pound: DOWN at 78.27 pence from 78.29 pence  Pound/dollar: DOWN at $1.4435 from $1.4453  burs-bcp/jh
Singapore, June 10, 2016 (AFP) - Crude prices dipped further in Asia on Friday on a stronger dollar, dampening a rally that saw the commodity hitting 11-month highs earlier in the week. The losses were in line with a sell-off on equities markets from Asia to the   Americas fuelled by worries about the state of the global economy. The greenback was boosted by better than expected US unemployment numbers, making oil more expensive and dampening demand. Traders, however, expect a fresh boost for oil futures if there are new signs of tightening supplies. "If the positive developments we are seeing like the tightening supply (and) increasing demand in the oil sector continue to develop for the next couple of months, then maybe the strengthening US dollar might not have that great an impact," said IG Markets' analyst   Bernard Aw. At around 0400 GMT, US benchmark   West Texas Intermediate was 15 cents, or 0.30 percent, down at $50.41 while Brent   North Sea crude was 13 cents, or 0.25 percent, lower at $51.82. Prices have almost doubled since hitting near 13-year lows at the start of the year as US supplies slowly shrink, while production in   Nigeria is hit by rebel unrest and   Canada 's key oil region is ravaged by wildfires. On Wednesday the   Department of Energy said US commercial stocks fell much more than expected in the week to June 3, fanning talk that demand is improving in the world's biggest oil consumer. "As long as prices stay above $50, the uptrend should still be intact," Aw added. str/rc/dan
Hong Kong, June 10, 2016 (AFP) - Asian shares turned lower Friday following losses in   New York and Europe as traders fret over the state of the global economy, with potentially big market-moving events coming into focus. After a healthy run of recent gains helped by rising oil prices, investors took a step back as the head of the   European Central Bank (ECB) called for action to kickstart eurozone growth -- which was taken as a sign its own arsenal is running low. Mario Draghi said the cost of delaying reforms would be "simply too high". His comments follow an indication from   Federal Reserve boss   Janet Yellen that it will likely not lift interest rates until the fourth quarter, while other central banks have either announced or are contemplating cuts. Attention is now on next week's policy meetings of the US and Japanese central banks. The   Bank of Japan earlier this year adopted a negative interest rate policy, following a similar move in 2015 by the ECB, in a bid to nurture investment. But the move has been criticised as being ineffective and some lenders say their bottom lines are being hit. Also, there are fears that a British referendum on its   European Union membership on June 23 will see a vote to leave, which many fear could unleash a wave of turmoil across world markets. "The market is looking at a very small chance of the   Fed moving next week,"   Chris Green , the Auckland-based director of economics and strategy at   First NZ Capital Group , told   Bloomberg News . "While that's been supportive of risk assets, a delay in the Fed rate hike is also a reflection of weaker economic backdrop. Further weakness in US economic data along with the potential for (a British   Eu exit) would be a cause for concern." Japan's Nikkei ended the morning session 0.5 percent lower, while   Hong Kong was off 0.4 percent after returning from a one-day public holiday.   Sydney shed one percent and   Seoul was 0.4 percent lower, while there were also losses in   Singapore and   Wellington . Oil prices drifted lower for a second day as investors booked profits from a recent surge that has seen the commodity touch 11-month highs. In the morning West Texas Intermediate dipped 0.2 percent to $50.50, having Thursday hit its highest level since July. Brent was down 0.1 percent at $51.90. However, with the dollar unlikely to pick up any time soon -- which makes crude cheaper for holders of other currencies -- analysts are tipping the black   gold to break the $55 barrier soon.   - Key figures around 0230 GMT - Tokyo - Nikkei 225: DOWN 0.5 percent at 15,586.71 (break) Hong Kong - Hang Seng: DOWN 0.4 percent at 21,212.07 Shanghai - Composite: Closed for a public holiday Euro/dollar: DOWN at $1.1300 from $1.1315 late Thursday Dollar/yen: UP at 107.21 yen from 107.10 yen Pound/dollar: UP at $1.4454 from $1.4453 New York - Dow: DOWN 0.1 percent at 17,985.19 (close) London -   FTSE 100: DOWN 1.1 percent at 6,231.89 (close) dan/ceb
MUMBAI: Financial sector veteran Jaideep Bhattacharya, who has spent about two decades in mutual funds and banking, has turned an entrepreneur.Bhattacharya has launched a tech-driven financial advisory platform which aims to simplify investment planning and bring in transparency for investors across the wealth spectrum. In mid-2014, Bhattacharya quit as the MD of Baroda Pioneer MF. Before that, he was the chief marketing officer at UTI Mutual Fund. Bhattacharya said that for the last two years, he was working on various plans to launch his own technology platform. His firm Top3Choice has already tied up with companies like ICRA, the Indian arm of the global ratings major Moody's, and iFast Financial, a mutual fund distribution company which has a strong presence in south Asian markets and has been in India for over five years. On his decision to enter the investment advisory sector, Bhattacharya said that in the mutual fund industry where there are more than 11,000 schemes, investors with some basic or no knowledge about investing find it very difficult to make the right choice. This leads to delays in decision making or even a wrong decision. "We aim to help investors choose the right investment by simplifying the whole concept and the process - both," Bhattacharya said."To add value for the investors, knowledge and tools need to come together. It is important for a person to have seen different market cycles so that the experience benefits the investor as well as the use of new age tools for improving customer reach, engagement and experience," he said.The next step for Bhattacharya is to enter the financial literacy segment. "Increase in penetration of capital market products is directly linked to investor education and ease of doing transactions. There's a large opportunity there," he said.
Paris, June 10, 2016 (AFP) -  French industrial production rebounded in April, data showed Friday, fuelling recovery hopes in the eurozone's second-biggest economy.  Industrial output rose 1.2 percent in April, after a 0.4-percent decline the previous month, lifted mostly by gains in transport goods and heavy machinery, statistics bureau Insee said.  The figure was ahead of analysts' expectations, which had centred on a 0.4-percent increase.  "French industrial production entered the second quarter on a strong footing," commented Unicredit economist Tullia Bucco.  Manufacturing output alone also recovered, rising 1.3 percent in the month after a 1 percent downturn in March.  Production increases in the refining and coking industries slowed in April, as did output in extraction, water and energy.  "At this stage, the main risk to this positive picture is the protracted period of strikes hitting oil refineries and transport services, with a possible negative impact on overall economic activity," said Unicredit's Bucco.  The food industry stemmed its decline in output, which dropped by 0.5 percent after a 1.0-percent fall in March.  Italy, the eurozone's third-biggest economy after Germany and France, also reported rising industrial production on Friday.  Italian output rose 0.5 percent in April after showing no change in March, the Istat statistics agency said, also a better performance than analysts had expected.  Both figures support "the message from Germany that the sector had a decent month", said Jack Allen, an economist at Capital Economics.  Germany this week reported a 0.8-percent rise in industrial output, exceeding market expectations of an 0.6-percent increase.  But Allen cautioned that any future rises in industrial output in Europe's biggest economies would be slow, weighing on the outlook for gross domestic produce (GDP) in the euro currency bloc.  "Growth still looks set to slow in the second quarter and over the rest of the year, keeping the pressure on policymakers to provide further stimulus to the recovery," he said.  On the eurozone's periphery, Finland on Friday reported that its industrial production also took an upward swing in April, rising by 1.8 percent from March.  The statistics bureau of the Nordic country, which is slowly emerging from a three-year recession, said the mining and chemicals sectors were the main drivers behind the increase in output.  burs-jh/kjm        UNICREDIT
Tokyo, June 10, 2016 (AFP) -  Tokyo shares closed lower Friday as oil-linked firms were hit by a drop in crude prices, with investors eyeing central bank meetings in the US and Japan next week.  The strong yen and Britain's possible exit from the European Union also weighed on the Japanese market.  "Ahead of the Fed and BoJ next week, and the vote on (Britain's Eu membership) the week after, no one wants to take risks today," Juichi Wako, a senior strategist at Nomura Holdings, told Bloomberg News.  The Nikkei 225 index fell 0.40 percent, or 67.05 points, to 16,601.36 at the close. It was down 0.25 percent over the week.  The Topix index of all first section shares fell 0.50 percent, or 6.69 points, to 1,330.72, giving up 0.49 percent since last Friday.  After the closing bell, messaging app Line said it would list in Tokyo and New York next month in an initial public offering that would value the firm at about $5.5 billion.  Trading volume at the Tokyo Stock Exchange has been thin this week as many investors stick to the sidelines ahead of the Fed meeting, which wraps up Wednesday.  Investors are hoping both the Fed and Bank of Japan give some insight to their plans for monetary policy, including US interest rates and possible Japanese economic stimulus.  Britain's June 23 vote on whether to remain in the EU is also high on the agenda as some polls show the "Leave" camp ahead. There are fears an decision to exit the bloc could cause volatility across global markets.  The yen gained as investors shifted into safer investments with the dollar at 106.98 yen, down from 107.10 yen Thursday in New York.  And Japan's benchmark 10-year bond yield to a record low of minus 0.155 percent, joining a rally in US and European debt. Bond prices and yields move in opposite directions.  Banking giant Mitsubishi UFJ was 0.27 percent higher at 527.6 yen, while industrial robot maker Fanuc dropped 0.48 percent to 16,730 yen.  Toyota rose 0.43 percent to 5,627 yen while Uniqlo operator Fast Retailing, a market heavyweight, was down 0.42 percent at 29,815 yen.  Energy stocks tumbled as oil prices retreated from 11-month highs, with explorer Inpex slumping 2.91 percent to 884 yen and refiner JX Holdings 2.92 percent off at 432 yen.  bur-hih/pb/dan
New York, June 9, 2016 (AFP) - World stock markets fell Thursday as   European Central Bank chief   Mario Draghi again called for urgent action by politicians to breathe new life into the tepid eurozone economy. Eurozone lawmakers must enact fiscal reform and stimulus, Draghi said, adding "the cost of delay is simply too high." The demand for governments to act rather than rely on central banks to boost growth came as billionaire investors   Carl Icahn and   George Soros made bearish statements about the world economy, and as   Britain 's looming   Eu membership vote continued to dampen on investor sentiment. In   New York the markets ended a three-day streak of gains with the S&P 500 losing 0.2 percent. Germany's DAX led the main European bourses lower, off 1.3 percent, and earlier in Asia the Nikkei in   Tokyo fell 1.0 percent. "Draghi's warning that governments are not doing enough to stimulate growth feeds into the belief that the recovery is going to be extremely slow and weak,"   Craig Erlam , senior market analyst at   OANDA trading group, told AFP. "Draghi appears to be suggesting that the   ECB is nearing the limit of what it can do, which may indicate that the central bank won't be as aggressive with future stimulus as they have in the past." The losses came as the rate on British 10-year government bonds hit a new all-time low, while US treasury yields retreated to multi-month lows. Falling interest rates "are starting to create a sinking feeling because they are not aligned with a healthy economic outlook at all," said Briefing.com analyst   Patrick O'Hare. The prospect of a British vote on June 23 in favor of Brexit -- exiting the   European Union -- remains a dark cloud over markets. A study by a Dutch government thinktank said the   Netherlands could suffer a 1.2-percent fall in GDP by 2030 and a 10-billion-euro trade loss if Britain leaves the EU. With interest rates so low expected to drag on bank profits, banking shares were hammered again Thursday. Germany's   Commerzbank lost 3.2 percent, France's   Societe Generale 2.1 percent and US giant   Wells Fargo 1.7 percent. Mining shares retreated with tumbling copper prices.   Anglo American lost 4.5 percent, BHP   Billiton 4.5 percent and   Freeport-McMoRan 5.9 percent.  - Key figures around 2100 GMT - New York - Dow: DOWN 0.1 percent at 17,985.19 (close) New York - S&P 500: DOWN 0.2 percent at 2,115.48 (close) New York - Nasdaq: DOWN 0.3 percent at 4,958.62 (close) London -   FTSE 100: DOWN 1.1 percent at 6,231.89 (close) Frankfurt - DAX 30: DOWN 1.3 percent at 10,088.87 (close) Paris - CAC 40: DOWN 1.0 percent at 4,405.61 (close) EURO STOXX 50: DOWN 1.0 percent at 2,989.03 (close) Tokyo - Nikkei 225: DOWN 1.0 percent at 16,668.41 (close) Shanghai - Composite: Closed for a holiday Hong Kong - Hang Seng: Closed for a holiday Euro/dollar: DOWN at $1.1315 from $1.1393 late Wednesday Dollar/yen: UP at 107.10 yen from 106.99 yen Pound/dollar: DOWN at $1.4453 from $1.4503 burs-jmb/pmh
Tokyo, June 10, 2016 (AFP) -  Messaging app Line said Friday it will make its stock market debut in Tokyo and New York next month, in a bid to expand beyond its popularity among smartphone users in Asia.  The Japan-based firm won regulatory approval for the sale -- likely to be among the biggest IPOs this year -- with the dual listing expected to raise as much as 113 billion yen ($1.05 billion), including an option to sell more shares if demand is strong.  The deal would value Line at about $5.5 billion, and was described by Bloomberg as this year's biggest tech offering globally.  Line, which is owned by South Korean Internet provider Naver Corp., said it expected to list its shares on July 14 in New York and July 15 in Tokyo.  It will offer 13 million new shares in Japan, with another 22 million in the US, according to documents filed with the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The indicative share price would be 2,800 yen apiece.  "(The company) has made the decision to go public in both Japan and the United States to further enhance its strong position in Asia and to continue a more active global expansion," the company said.  The sale comes two years after Line initially announced plans to list in an IPO that was later shelved.  The July offering would be the biggest in Tokyo since Japan Post made its long-awaited trading debut in November with a share sale that topped $11.5 billion.  The popular app lets users make free calls, send instant messages, and post photos or short videos, along with a host of other paid-services. It combines attributes from Facebook, Skype and WhatsApp.  Line's messaging service launched in 2011 after the quake-tsunami tragedy damaged Japan's telecoms infrastructure nationwide forcing people to use to online resources to communicate.  It is best known for letting users send each other cute cartoon "stickers", and is hugely popular in Japan, particularly among teenagers.  The app -- which claims to have more than 200 million monthly active users -- has a strong presence in Asian markets such as Thailand, Taiwan and Indonesia, as well as some Spanish-speaking areas, including Spain and Mexico.  But the company has been looking to expand in bigger markets, such as the US.  Proceeds of the share sale would be earmarked for investing in its message app and financing its growth strategy at home and overseas, Line said.  "We will continue mergers and acquisitions and other investment globally, but there is nothing decided at this point" in terms of a particular deal, the company said.  Last year, Line posted revenue of 120 billion yen, up 40 percent from the year before, but a small overall loss, which it blamed on rising staff costs and other expenses.  bur-kh/pb/as      Facebook
NEW DELHI: The government has kicked off consultations for a fresh round of liberalization of foreign direct investment (FDI) rules, with the finance ministry suggesting that up to 49% overseas flows be allowed in existing pharmaceutical companies via the automatic route.In addition, North Block has asked the department of industrial policy and promotion (DIPP) to identify other sectors where the norms can be eased, an exercise which has begun, sources told TOI. Finance ministry's proposal is in line with its stand of allowing more investments via the automatic route, which means that an investor only has to inform the RBI after pumping money into the country.The Narendra Modi government has already opened up several sector such railways, de fence and insurance, besides easing rules in a host of other areas -ranging from single-brand retail to tea and coffee plantations. In addition, it is working on rules to allow up to 100% FDI in food retail and permit easier flow of funds into non-bank finance companies, beyond 18 sectors which are regulated by one of the financial sector watchdogs such as the RBI, Sebi or IRDA. Both the decisions are expected over the next few weeks, although Harsimrat Kaur Badal's food processing mini stry is pushing for conditions such as minimum investment in back-end infrastructure as well as allowing food retailers to sell some non-food items.While discussions with the food processing ministry are on, there are few takers for the argument. Sources said that conditions would only deter investors from coming to India.Sources said separately, work has begun on opening up more sectors and consultations are underway. Putting pharma on the automatic route, however, may be a contentious issue, given that the rules mandating clearance from the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) for brownfield ventures were put in place to prevent a takeover of the crucial sector by overseas drug companies. In the wake of acquisition of companies such as Ranbaxy and Piramal, the government had stipulated that existing ventures will face scrutiny with a ban on "non-compete clause". The government feared that takeover will result in drying up of supplies of generic drugs and thrust on highcost patented medicines by overseas pharma companies.Liberalization of FDI rules in the last two years is being showcased as a major policy initiative of the NDA government, which is claiming credit for inflows of $55.5 billion during the last financial year.
Tokyo, June 10, 2016 (AFP) - The yen strengthened Friday in Asia as investors shifted into safer investments ahead of central bank meetings in the US and Japan, while   Britain 's upcoming   EU membership vote was also in focus. Emerging currencies also lost ground against the dollar, as analysts warned that a pickup in the higher-yielding, or riskier, units may have run its course. "The rally be could be near an end... so long as the (Federal Reserve) doesn't turn too dovish next week," Khoon   Goh , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group, told   Bloomberg News . "The weakness this morning is likely due to profit-taking and position adjustment... We have had quite a rally in emerging-markets since the weak US payrolls" last week. Markets are keeping a close eye on the Fed meeting for clues about when it will lift interest rates, which would tend to boost the dollar at the expense of other currencies. The   Bank of Japan also holds a meeting, with investors keen to see if policymakers unleash more stimulus to boost the struggling economy. In early afternoon trading, the greenback weakened to 106.98 yen from 107.10 yen Thursday in   New York . The euro changed hands at $1.1297 against $1.1315. The single currency is also sitting around three-year lows at 120.91 yen, well down from 121.18 yen in US trading. Investors tend to buy the yen during times of turmoil or uncertainty. Growing anxiety that Britain will vote to leave the   European Union in a referendum on June 23 is also spreading among traders. "   Ahead of the Fed and BoJ next week, and the (British) vote... the week after, no one wants to take risks today," said   Juichi Wako , a senior strategist at Nomura Holdings. The British pound ticked down to $1.4447 from $1.4453. In other deals, the South Korean won and oil-linked ringgit were the main decliners among the emerging units against the dollar. The won slipped 0.8 percent, while the ringgit dropped 0.6 percent. The Indian rupee shed 0.2 percent, Thailand's baht slipped 0.1 percent and the Philippine peso was off 0.2 percent. dhl/kgo/pb/dan     NOMURA HOLDINGS       ANZ - AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND BANKING GROUP
Wellington, June 10, 2016 (AFP) - Air New Zealand said Friday it will sell the bulk of its stake in Virgin Australia to   Nanshan Group , making the Shandong-based conglomerate the airline's second Chinese investor in as many weeks. Nanshan will pay Aus0.33 cents a share for a 19.98 percent stake in Virgin Australia, valuing it at about Aus$230 million (US$170 million),   Air NZ said. "The sale will allow   Air New Zealand to focus on its own growth opportunities, while still continuing its long-standing alliance with Virgin Australia on the trans-Tasman network," chairman   Tony Carter said. The   Kiwi flag carrier was Virgin Australia's largest shareholder, with a 25.89 percent stake built up as the airlines forged an alliance against rival Qantas. Carter said the deal needed approval from Chinese regulators, adding that Air NZ was considering its options regarding the rest of its Virgin Australia shares. The move comes after Chinese aviation and tourism giant   HNA bought a 13 percent stake in Virgin Australia on May 31. At the time, Virgin said the tie-up would boost its access to the "rapidly growing Chinese travel market" and it would consider introducing direct flights between Australia and China. Nanshan owns   Qingdao Airlines , while HNA is parent of   Hainan Airlines and last month took a stake in Portuguese national carrier TAP. Virgin, Australia's second-largest airline, said in a statement that it expected Nanshan to seek a seat on its board. "We look forward to meeting with Nanshan Group over the coming weeks to discuss the proposed acquisition," it said. Air New Zealand shares rose 3.23 percent to NZ$2.24 in   Wellington on the announcement. Other major shareholders in Virgin Australia include Etihad Airways, Singapore Airlines and Virgin Group. ns/mp/mtp     AIR NEW ZEALAND       VIRGIN AUSTRALIA HOLDINGS       Singapore Airlines       QANTAS AIRWAYS
Caracas, June 10, 2016 (AFP) - Jose Salazar is waving a fistful of Venezuelan bolivars in the middle of a   Caracas street. "What do I do with this money?" demands the angry retiree and grandfather, one of dozens of Venezuelans who blocked an avenue in the capital Wednesday in protest against the food shortages ravaging the troubled country. Similar scenes have broken out on an almost daily basis in towns and cities across   Venezuela , a once-booming oil producer that has skidded to the brink of collapse as global crude prices have plunged. Salazar said he was looking for food for his family, but there was none to be found in the supermarkets. So he joined a spontaneous protest with other residents of   Petare , an impoverished neighborhood in eastern Caracas, who were all facing the same predicament and venting their anger against leftist President   Nicolas Maduro . "Get out Nicolas Maduro," and "Referendum!" they shouted -- a reference to the opposition's push to call a referendum on sacking the unpopular president. "We're hungry. We want food. Expensive, cheap, imported, whatever. It doesn't matter. But we need food," said protester   Tairon Rincon . Police soon broke them up with tear gas and rubber bullets. But hours later another protest broke out in the middle class neighborhood of Los Ruices. Similar ones had erupted in the previous 24 hours in cities across Venezuela, including Valera, San Juan de los Morros and   Porlamar , according to press reports.   - Buses with bald tires -  Sometimes the protests escalate into looting sprees. The   Venezuelan Observatory for Social Conflict , a monitoring group, says 254 incidents of looting or attempted looting erupted in the first five months of the year. There were 2,779 protests over shortages or interrupted water and electricity supplies in the same period, the group says. Food, medicine and basic goods like toilet paper, deodorant and diapers are all in short supply, and a drought and electricity crisis have exacerbated Venezuelans' hardships. As the Petare protest flared, bus drivers were staging their own protest in front of the transportation ministry over the lack of spare parts for their vehicles. "Now we have problems getting batteries, tires, oil. The gasoline price has gone up. This business just isn't bringing in enough," said   Alfonso Rangel . Drivers put signs outside the ministry asking "Where are the tires and batteries, Mr. Minister?" "More than 70 percent of the fleet is off the road," said protester   Jose Luis Montoya . "The buses' tires are all bald.... We're risking our passengers' lives and our own."   - World's highest inflation -  Maduro has long dismissed the center-right opposition as elitist, and their protests against his government as a capitalist conspiracy. But spontaneous protests like the ones by the bus drivers and the residents of Petare hit closer to home. Maduro himself is a former bus driver, and Petare is the kind of neighborhood that used to be bastions for the Socialist leader and his late predecessor,   Hugo Chavez . But the crisis has badly damaged Maduro's popularity, which is in the 20s halfway into his six-year term. The scarcity of goods has sent prices soaring. Venezuela had the worst inflation in the world last year, 180.9 percent. The figure is on track to hit 700 percent this year, says the International Monetary Fund. et/jhb/vlk
Tokyo, June 10, 2016 (AFP) -  Messaging app Line said Friday it will list its shares in Tokyo and New York, in a sale valuing the firm at about $5.5 billion, as it looks to spread beyond a strong base among smartphone users in Asia.  The Tokyo-based firm won approval for the sale -- likely to be among the biggest IPOs this year -- with the dual listing expected to raise about 98 billion yen ($917 million).  Line, which is owned by South Korean Internet provider Naver Corp., said it expected to list its shares on July 14 in New York and July 15 in Tokyo.  The Tokyo Stock Exchange said Line will offer 13 million new shares in Japan, with another 22 million new shares to be offered in the US. The indicative price for the shares would be 2,800 yen apiece.  "(The company) has made the decision to go public in both Japan and the United States to further enhance its strong position in Asia and to continue a more active global expansion," it said.  The sale comes two years after Line initially announced plans to list its shares. The IPO was later shelved.  The offering would be the biggest in Tokyo since Japan Post made its long-awaited trading debut in November with an IPO that topped $11.5 billion.  The popular app lets users make free calls, send instant messages, and post photos or short videos, along with a host of other paid-services. It combines attributes from Facebook, Skype and WhatsApp.  The firm's messaging service was launched in 2011 after the quake-tsunami tragedy damaged telecoms infrastructure nationwide, forcing staff to resort to online resources to communicate.  Best known for letting users send each other cute cartoon "stickers", Line is hugely popular in Japan, particularly among teenagers.  The app -- which claims to have more than 200 million monthly active users -- has a strong presence in Asian markets such as Thailand, Taiwan and Indonesia, as well as some Spanish-speaking areas, including Spain and Mexico.  But the company has been looking to expand in bigger markets, such as the United States.  bur-kh/pb/ceb      Facebook
Tokyo, June 10, 2016 (AFP) - Tokyo stocks opened lower Friday, tracking losses on   Wall Street as investors focused on   Federal Reserve and   Bank of Japan (BoJ) meetings next week for trading cues. US equities slipped on Thursday after shares of large banks dropped on dimming expectations of a Fed rate hike next week and a retreat in oil prices. Markets will now be keeping a close eye on a two-day policy meeting by Japan's central bank that will end on Thursday. In early trade,   Tokyo 's benchmark   Nikkei 225 index shed 0.72 percent, or 120.07 points, to 16,548.34, resuming the previous day's slide. The broader Topix index of all first-section shares was down 0.84 percent, or 11.27 points, at 1,326.14. "With US stocks falling after hitting key levels and the weakness in oil, overseas factors won't be supportive for Japanese stocks,"   Juichi Wako , a senior strategist at   Nomura Holdings , told Bloomberg News. "Ahead of the Fed and BoJ next week, and the vote on Brexit the week after, no one wants to take risks today." On currency markets, the dollar edged down to 106.98 yen from 107.10 yen Thursday in   New York . In share trading,   Toyota lost 0.28 percent to 5,587 yen in early deals and   Nissan declined 1.23 percent to 1,038 yen. Energy explorer   Inpex slumped 2.64 percent to 886.4 yen, while refiner   JX Holdings was 2.24 percent off at 435 yen. dhl/mtp      NISSAN MOTOR       TOYOTA MOTOR       INPEX       JX HOLDINGS       NOMURA HOLDINGS
London, June 10, 2016 (AFP) -  Britain's biggest retailer, supermarket group Tesco, said Friday it was selling its Turkish business as its international arm focuses on its operations in Central Europe and Southeast Asia.  Tesco, which is slowly turning around its performance after a record annual loss in 2014/15, said in a statement it was offloading also its mainly British restaurant chain, Giraffe, after only three years.  The supermarket giant is selling its 95.5-percent controlling stake in Turkish business Kipa to rival group Migros.  The sale, subject to local regulatory approvals, will result in estimated cash proceeds of around £30 million ($43 million, 38 million euros), contributing to a reduction of around £110 million in total debt, Tesco said.  "The sale of Kipa reflects the particular strategic challenge we have faced in Turkey as a small regional player in a highly competitive market," Tesco chief executive Dave Lewis said in the statement.  "It removes the need for the sustained investment required to enable the business to compete independently, allowing us to focus on improving profitability in Central Europe and continuing to grow our businesses in Southeast Asia."  Tesco entered the Turkish market in 2003, growing the business to 170 stores that employ around 9,600 staff, according to its website.  Tesco is selling Giraffe to Boparan Restaurants Holdings Limited for an undisclosed amount.  Regarding the decision to sell Giraffe, Lewis added: "As we stabilise the business in the UK, we continue to focus on where we can best serve the needs of our customers, while ensuring our business remains sustainable for the long-term."  Tesco's overall business rebounded into profit in the year to February on strong sales, after a vast property writedown and challenging home trade sparked a record £5.7-billion loss in its previous financial year.  In recent years, Tesco's performance has been hurt by increased competition in Britain, particularly from German-owned discount retailers Aldi and Lidl, as well as Morrisons, Sainsbury's and Walmart-owned Asda.  Tesco has also exited its businesses in South Korea and the United States.  burs-bcp/kjm      TESCO        J. SAINSBURY PLC
PARIS: France vowed drastic measures to ensure the smooth running of Euro 2016, as strikes and terror fears threaten to overshadow Europe's showcase football event, which kicks off Friday.      The action on the pitch starts when hosts France face Romania in the Stade de France in Paris at 1900 GMT, but industrial unrest and jitters over a potential terror attack have blighted the build-up to the tournament.      As train drivers vowed to disrupt services to the stadium, President Francois Hollande said he would take "all necessary measures" to ensure the championships run without a hitch.      "I will be paying close attention... and if decisions need to be made, they will be made," Hollande said. "Public services will be provided... The whole of Europe will be watching."      Transport Minister Alain Vidalies warned that striking rail workers might be ordered back to work.      Vidalies told Europe 1 radio the government would use "every tool available" to get fans to the opening match and "if we have to issue orders tomorrow (for trains to be driven), we will do so."      And Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo promised that the rubbish that has been piling up in the capital for two days due to an ongoing strike would be collected, as hundreds of thousands of fans begin to arrive for the championships.      "Of course, all the rubbish will be collected... it is already being collected today," Hidalgo told French TV.      Up to 90,000 police and private security guards will protect players and supporters the tournament, which is taking place just seven months after coordinated Islamic State attacks in Paris killed 130 people.      The massive security operation got its first real test on Thursday when superstar French DJ David Guetta gave a free performance in the fan zone at the foot of the Eiffel Tower.      Some 80,000 spectators had to pass through two checkpoints and stringent security searches.      But another threat raised its ugly head when around 250 England fans clashed with police outside a bar in the southern city of Marseille late Thursday.      Police used teargas to end the disturbances after the fans pelted officers with cans in the Vieux-Port area of the city, where England will face Russia in their high-profile opener on Saturday.      Weeks of demonstrations and industrial action in protest at the Socialist government's labour market reforms have provided a sombre backdrop to Europe's four-yearly festival of football.      Tournament organisers admitted the strikes and the rubbish piled up in Paris had "already spoiled" the atmosphere.      "The image that is being given is not the one we wanted," chief organiser Jacques Lambert said.      Hollande has refused to back down on the unions' demands to withdraw the labour reforms, arguing the measures are necessary to cut stubbornly high unemployment.      In another headache for organisers, Air France pilots have called for a four-day strike starting on Saturday, when an estimated two million foreign fans will begin arriving in earnest.      The latest round of negotiations broke down on Thursday.      But Air France chief executive Frederic Gagey promised that between 70 percent and 80 percent of flights would operate on Saturday.      France remains a top target for the Islamic State group and warnings from the United States and Britain that the tournament could be a target have only added to the sense of nervousness.      After Thursday's successful concert, the security focus shifts to the Stade de France, where three jihadists blew themselves up at the start of the November 13 carnage, which also targeted a concert hall and cafes and restaurants.      Among a host of extra security measures, a new perimeter fence has been added around the venue to allow more security searches of spectators.      Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve said Wednesday 300 people had been barred from serving in the private security teams after vetting showed they had been radicalised.
Bordeaux, June 10, 2016 (AFP) - Distinctive haircut? Check. Multiple national player of the year awards? Check. Feared attacker with a vicious shot and the freedom to roam all over the pitch? Check, check, check. Gareth Bale and   Marek Hamsik would be able to reflect upon the many things they have in common were they not lining up against each other for Wales and Slovakia in Saturday's Euro 2016 opener in Bordeaux. The two players -- topknot-sporting Bale, 26, and mohican-crested Hamsik, 28 -- inspired their respective countries to qualify for a European Championship finals for the first time and the outcome of the match may boil down to which of the two players comes out on top. Rafael Benitez, the only man to have coached both players, remarked during his time at   Napoli that if Bale was worth 100 million euros ($113.6 million) -- the fee it cost   Real Madrid to sign him -- Hamsik was "priceless". Two years later he was the Madrid coach and had revised his evaluation of Bale sufficiently to put the Welshman at the forefront of his plans, granting him a central role that briefly threatened to put even   Cristiano Ronaldo in the shade. Saturday's game brings Bale's international career full circle. It was against Slovakia that he scored his first Wales goal -- an arcing free-kick in an otherwise bleak 5-1 mauling in   Cardiff in October 2006 that made him, at 17 years and 35 days, his country's youngest goal-scorer. Back then he was a floppy-haired left-back learning his trade with   Southampton , but after blossoming into a free-scoring attacker at   Tottenham Hotspur , his move to Madrid turned him into a two-time Champions League winner and global star. "To have a chance to play at such a young age was a little bit of a surprise, I suppose, but something I really wanted to do," Bale told the   UEFA website this week. "It was an unforgettable experience. Now I'm trying to do my best for Wales. "I obviously understand that I am a role model for young people, but I try to take it in my stride, act normally, as I am."   - Warrior spirit -  Elected Welsh Player of the Year a record five times, Bale scored seven and created two of the 11 goals that   Chris Coleman 's Wales registered in their historic qualifying campaign, netting vital winners against Andorra, Belgium and   Cyprus . His entrance as a substitute could not prevent Wales from losing 3-0 to Sweden in their final warm-up game, but with Bale and his 19 international goals in the team, Welsh fans believe that anything is possible. Similarly precocious, Hamsik moved to   Italy to join   Brescia from   Slovan Bratislava aged 17 in 2004 and began his love affair with Napoli three years later. He has helped the southern Italian side to two Coppa   Italia triumphs and, unlike Bale, has already graced a major tournament, starring as Slovakia reached the last 16 at the 2010 World Cup. The Napoli captain, a snarling playmaker with a warrior spirit, does not possess Bale's awesome physical attributes, but his eye for goal is every bit as keen and with 18 goals, he is Slovakia's third-highest all-time scorer. A five-time Slovakian Player of the Year -- also a record -- he top-scored for his country in qualifying with five goals and recently inspired   Jan Kozak 's side to a 3-1 win away to world champions   Germany , sparking their comeback with a sumptuous 25-yard equaliser. "First of all, he's our team leader," manager Kozak told   Sky Sports ahead of the tournament. "He's an established footballer, playing for a big Italian club and a great person to have around the squad. "He loves to represent his country, which is obviously important. Unquestionably, he's a player of the highest quality." When referee   Svein Oddvar Moen 's whistle sounds at   Stadium Bordeaux , there will be a world-class player on both sides of the halfway line. thw/mw
PARIS: Didier Deschamps' exciting France team start the Euro 2016 finals against Romania on Friday with the country grappling with strike chaos but among the favourites to win the trophy.      Under a state of emergency since the November 13 Paris attacks and with the government scrambling to end the disruption of rail travel and garbage collection, the nation is counting on the team to repeat the feats of the French sides that won Euro 84 and the 1998 World Cup on home soil.      World Cup holders Germany, defending champions Spain and England's wealthy young stars are all out to block Les Bleus however.      French coach Deschamps lifted the World Cup as captain 18 years ago and has assembled a young, attacking side including Paul Pogba, one of Europe's most wanted players.      "If you want to go far in the competition clearly you need to have great attacking potential," said Deschamps ahead of the Group A game which kicks off at the Stade de France at 1900 GMT.      "I picked these players. I know their qualities, there are players with different characteristics, we've been able to score a lot of goals and create a lot of problems for the opponents."      Despite attempts by Deschamps and France captain Hugo Lloris to dampen expectations, Romania coach Anghel Iordanescu put France among the front-runners.      "I think France have some terrifically talented players, all with top sides in the Champions League and it is a side worth hundreds of millions of Euros," said Iordanescu.      "Given the ability of their players I think France are one of the favourites for this tournament."      The French government vowed Friday to get tough with train drivers and refuse collectors to ensure that the tournament is not disrupted by strikes.      President Francois Hollande promised to take "all necessary measures" to keep the country moving while Transport Minister Alain Vidalies warned that striking rail workers might be ordered back to work to ensure millions of visitors can get to matches around the country.      "If we have to issue orders tomorrow (for trains to be driven), we will do so," Vidalies said.      Collections finally began of household rubbish that has piled up in the streets of Paris due to union blockades of incineration plants.      "I am a spectator too, I hope it won't spoil the party because in a competition like this, on French soil, I think we have to show a great image of our country," said Lloris.      But local chief organiser Jacques Lambert said the atmosphere was "already spoiled".      "The image that is being given is not the one we wanted," he admitted.      The huge security operation focused on the tournament passed its first test on Thursday in a concert headlined by superstar DJ David Guetta in the Paris fan zone attended by 90,000 fans.      About 90,000 police and private guards will be mobilised to provide security at the 10 stadiums seven months after the Paris attacks.      Suicide bombers unsuccessfully tried to enter the Stade de France, which will host the opening game and the final, in one of the attacks.      The biggest star on show at the tournament, three-time World Player of the Year Cristiano Ronaldo, touched down in France on Thursday as Portugal became the final team to arrive.      Fresh from scoring the winning penalty as Real Madrid won the Champions League two weeks ago, Ronaldo dispelled doubts over his fitness with two goals in a 45-minute cameo as the Portuguese thrashed Estonia 7-0 in their final warm-up friendly on Wednesday.      After France and Romania open proceedings, the newly expanded 24-team tournament kicks into gear with six games on a star-studded weekend.      England's prolific new strike partnership of Premier League top-scorer Harry Kane and Leicester City title-winning hero Jamie Vardy will hope to outgun Russia in Marseille on Saturday.      In an indication of why the match has been designated high risk by French authorities, around 250 England fans clashed with police outside a bar in Marseille on Thursday night.      Police used teargas to break up the disturbances.      Also in England's group, Real Madrid's Gareth Bale will headline Wales' opener in their first appearance in a major championship since the 1958 World Cup.      The play Slovakia, also making their first appearance at the finals.      On Sunday, Germany open their campaign against Ukraine, and Bayern Munich's Polish striker Robert Lewandowski will aim to spoil Northern Ireland's Euros debut.
RIO DE JANEIRO: Bayern Munich have expressed interest in signing teenage Brazilian Gabriel Jesus, the forward's agent has said.      Gabriel is the top scorer for Brazilian Serie A club Palmeiras this year with 13 goals in all competitions, reports Xinhua.      He is expected to be one of the first players picked in Brazil's squad for the Rio Olympic Games football tournament in August.      "I spoke with one of Bayern's scouts. And I previously had a conversation with somebody at Juventus. But they are only inquiries." Gabriel's agent, Cristiano Simoes, told Brazilian portal Lance on Thursday.      The 19-year-old has a release clause of 40 million ($45.2 million) written into his Palmeiras contract.      "It's not only the financial aspect that we're looking at," the agent said. "We're analysing projects, cities, the language, everything. He is not in a hurry. Right now we are focusing on the Brazilian championship."
Germany goalkeeper Manuel Neuer is ready to play the mentor's role irrespective of who leads the team in their Euro 2016 opener against Ukraine on Sunday.      With skipper Bastian Schweinsteiger, returning from a knee injury, unlikely to start at Stade Pierre-Mauroy, Neuer might be asked to deputise and the Bayern Munich goalkeeper played down the importance of the role.      "The coach has not spoken about this, neither to me personally nor in front of the team," Neuer told the UEFA website (www.uefa.com).      "It doesn't really matter to us who wears the armband if Bastian doesn't start."      Neuer hoped his experience would be invaluable to the youngsters, such as Leory Sane and Julian Weigl, in the squad.      "As a goalkeeper, I talk a lot to my fellow players on and off the pitch," the 30-year-old added.      "For a few years now I have seen myself as a leader and I particularly try to help the young players who come into the squad."      The World Champions are one among the favourites for the 24-team tournament in France this month, and will be eyeing their first continental title since 1996.      After mixed results in their warmup games, including a 3-1 defeat by Slovakia, Neuer said that the players were keen to get onto the pitch.      "We are excited that the tournament is about to begin," he said.      "Obviously, preparation and training is needed, but the best thing is when the matches start. The mood within the team is very good and we can hardly wait to take to the pitch."      Germany kept their first clean sheet for nearly a year in their 2-0 win against Hungary in their warm-up friendly on Saturday, but the their defence has been further questioned after injuries to centre-back Mats Hummels and Antonio Ruediger.      "Given Ruediger's injury, it's good to have versatile defenders and Benedikt Hoewedes fits right into that category," Neuer added.      "Ultimately, that's up to the coach (on who plays). He does not turn to us players for advice when it comes to that."      Poland and Northern Ireland are the other teams in Group C.
A goal by Salomon Rondongave Venezuelaan upset 1-0 win over Uruguayin Philadelphia on Thursday that put them on the verge of the Copa America Centenarioquarter-finals with the record 15-times champions facing elimination.   When midfielder Alejandro Guerralobbed Fernando Muslerafrom more than 30 metres, the Uruguay goalkeeper chased back but only managed to tip the ball onto the bar and striker Rondon raced in to tap it into the net in the 36th minute.   Venezuela, who beat Jamaica 1-0 in their opening Group C match, have six points, three more than Mexico, who beat Uruguay 3-1 on Sunday and were playing the Jamaicans later on Thursday in Pasadena.   For Venezuela, looking for their maiden title, it was a first win in nine Copa America meetings with Uruguay while Rondon became the first "Vinotinto" (red wine) player to score at three tournaments.   For Uruguay, defender Maxi Pereira won a record 113th cap, surpassing former striker Diego Forlan, at his fourth tournament.   The Venezuelans overcame an early hiccup when right back Roberto Rosales was injured after seven minutes and had to be replaced by Alexander Gonzalez.   Uruguay, still without the injured Luis Suarez, made four changes from the team beaten by Mexico and had marginally the better of the opening half hour with midfielder Gaston Ramirez hitting the post.   But Rondon's goal turned the tide and Muslera had to save sharply from Guerra in the 43rd minute.   The Uruguayans, who won their 15th title in Argentina in 2011, pushed Venezuela back in the second half but lacked finishing and Muslera again prevented them going further behind with a fine save from Adalberto Penaranda in the 68th.   Edinson Cavani came close to equalising in the dying minutes but was wide with one chance and had another saved by Dani Hernandez.   Venezuela, no longer the whipping boys of South American football, first reached the quarter-finals when they hosted the tournament in 2007 and got their best result four years later when they reached the last four.
Tokyo, June 10, 2016 (AFP) - Tokyo stocks slipped on Friday morning, following losses across world markets, with messaging app Line expected to announce one of the year's biggest initial public offerings. Japanese media said Tokyo-based Line, owned by   South Korea 's Naver, was set to win approval from stock market regulators to list in   Tokyo and   New York as early as next month. Local reports said Line plans to raise about 100 billion yen ($933 million) in a sale that would value the company at around 600 billion yen. Bloomberg News cited unnamed sources as saying the sale could raise between $1 billion and $2 billion. A board meeting was being held Friday to decide on the share sale, a source told AFP. "Naver wants to push through with the   IPO so the chances of the board not approving the sale is quite low," the source said. By the break, Tokyo's benchmark   Nikkei 225 index fell 0.49 percent, or 81.70 points, to 16,586.71, continuing the previous day's slide. The broader Topix index of all first-section shares lost 0.65 percent, or 8.68 points, to 1,328.73. Investors are keeping a close eye on a policy meeting by the   Bank of Japan next week, while the   US Federal Reserve also meets with its rate-hike timeline in focus, analysts said. Mounting concern about   Britain leaving the   European Union in a referendum this month was also weighing on markets, analysts said. "With US stocks falling after hitting key levels and the weakness in oil, overseas factors won't be supportive for Japanese stocks,"   Juichi Wako , a senior strategist at   Nomura Holdings , told Bloomberg News. "Ahead of the Fed and BoJ next week, and the (British) vote... the week after, no one wants to take risks today." In share trading, banking giant   Mitsubishi UFJ fell 0.30 percent to 524.6 yen while industrial robot maker   Fanuc dropped 0.92 percent 16,655 yen. Toyota rose 0.51 percent to 5,632 yen and   Nissan ticked 0.14 percent higher to 1,052.5 yen. Energy stocks tumbled on lower oil prices, with explorer   Inpex slumping 3.21 percent to 881.2 yen and refiner   JX Holdings 3.03 percent off at 431.5 yen. The dollar edged up to 107.19 yen from 107.10 yen Thursday in New York, while yields on 10-year Japanese government bonds dropped to a record low of minus 0.155 percent, after US and European bonds rallied on concerns about the world economy. dhl/pb/dan     NISSAN MOTOR       TOYOTA MOTOR       INPEX       JX HOLDINGS       FANUC       MITSUBISHI UFJ FINANCIAL GROUP
Pasadena, United States, June 10, 2016 (AFP) - Mexico survived a first half barrage and a clear-cut penalty shout to beat Jamaica 2-0 in the   Copa America Thursday, booking a quarter-final place with a game to spare. The win leaves the Reggae Boyz still searching for their first goal and unable to go through, with   Uruguay also knocked out after losing to   Venezuela , the other qualifiers in Group C. But the match was mired in controversy as Jamaica were denied a spot-kick and a chance to equalize in the second half after striker   Clayton Donaldson looked to have been fouled in the area. The game had kicked off in a carnival atmosphere generated by a 83,263 crowd made almost entirely of Mexico fans. Jamaica had named a makeshift back line that was missing the injured   Kemar Lawrence and tough-tackling   Rodolph Austin . The team were also sorely missing the influence of head coach   Winfried Schaefer , who was suspended after being sent to the stands in the opener. Their inexperience showed in the 18th minute as   Jesus Manuel Corona was allowed to float in a cross from the left to an unmarked   Javier Hernandez , who nodded in from six yards for what will be one of the easiest of his 45 international goals. The prolific former Man Utd and   Real Madrid striker is now just one off equaling Mexico's all-time scoring record, held by Jared Borgetti. Jamaica had most of the early chances and should have drawn first blood on five minutes when Donaldson found himself in space in the area, only to hook his shot for a goal kick. The   Birmingham City striker was profligate again on the half hour, heading wide before his team mate   Garath McCleary fluffed a perfect pull-back by Jobi McAnuff. Jamaica had another golden opportunity to draw level before half time but   Malaga goalkeeper   Guillermo Ochoa showed incredible reactions to fend off   Michael Hector 's blasted shot from point blank range. Mexico were inches away from putting the match beyond Jamaica soon after the break, when a sweet pass from Corona found   Jimenez at the far post. The striker's volley bounced deliciously across the face of an open goal, but it was just beyond the oncoming Hernandez. Mexico began turning the screw, attacking in waves but couldn't find a way through and were caught on the break on 60 minutes when Donaldson took the ball around a defender only to be cut down by   Yasser Corona . Replays showed the defender didn't get a touch on the ball, but Brazilian match official   Wilton Sampaio looked away and there were few complaints from the partisan crowd. Jamaica's misery was sealed when Mexico's   Hirving Lozano picked out   Hector Herrera in the area and the midfielder nudged the ball on for substitute   Oribe Peralta to stroke the ball first time inside the right hand upright on the 81st minute. ft/rcw
Philadelphia, June 10, 2016 (AFP) - Uruguay were sent crashing out of the   Copa America Centenario on Thursday as Venezuela and Mexico marched into the quarer-finals. Uruguay, the record 15-time Copa America champions, were eliminated in the group phase for the first time since 1997 after slumping to a shock 1-0 loss to Venezuela in   Philadelphia . That result combined with Mexico's 2-0 Group C win over   Jamaica in Pasadena left the 2011 champions struggling to digest a humiliating early exit. "We never found the game we wanted and that cost us,"   Uruguay 's revered coach   Oscar Tabarez said, adding that the ill-fated campaign should serve as a warning to his team as they now look ahead to the resumption of 2018 World Cup qualifiers. "It's been a very different Copa America. I've never experienced something like this before. "We knew it was going to be difficult but this should be a wake-up call before the World Cup qualifiers," Tabarez added. Uruguay's defeat also capped a miserable tournament for   Barcelona superstar Luis Suarez. Suarez, nursing a hamstring injury when he joined up with the squad, has so far not played a single minute. Suarez appeared in the dugout and looked visibly frustrated at his failure to get on the pitch, at one point appearing to punch the dugout wall. Tabarez defended his decision not to name Suarez in the matchday squad. "The player is not fit to play. It's a matter of numbers. I will not select a player who is not 100 percent. Was he angry? I am not aware. To me he told me nothing," Tabarez said. Venezuela's winner came on 36 minutes, when midfielder   Alejandro Guerra cleverly spotted Uruguay goalkeeper   Fernando Muslera off his line. Guerra unleashed a long-range effort from near the halfway line which the back-pedalling Muslera could only parry onto the bar before   Salomon Rondon bundled in the rebound. Venezuela's advance to the last eight is the biggest shock of the tournament so far. The Venezuelans are currently bottom of   South America 's 10-team round robin qualifying competition for the 2018 World Cup; Uruguay are on top of the standings.   - Beating 'the maestro' -  "To beat the 'Maestro' Tabarez is a privilege," Venezuela coach   Rafael Dudamel said. "For me it means a lot. He's one of the best coaches in the world, in history. This win will motivate us to keep winning and growing as a team," he added. Venezuela will now face Mexico in their final first round game to determine who finishes top of Group C. Mexico, who had beaten Uruguay 3-1 in their opening game, meanwhile proved too powerful for   Caribbean minnows Jamaica in front of an 83,263 crowd at the Pasadena Rose Bowl. With California's large population of Mexican-Americans making it a virtual home game for 'El Tri', Mexico took the lead on 18 minutes when former   Manchester United and   Real Madrid striker   Javier Hernandez nodded in his 45th international goal. Jamaica were denied what looked like a clear-cut penalty in the second half after striker   Clayton Donaldson appeared to have been fouled in the area. The drama came in the 60th minute when Donaldson rounded his marker before being cut down by Yasser Corona. Replays showed the defender didn't get a touch on the ball. Jamaica's misery was sealed when Mexico's   Hirving Lozano picked out   Hector Herrera in the area and the midfielder nudged the ball on for substitute   Oribe Peralta to stroke the ball first time inside the right hand upright on the 81st minute. "It's a tough loss of a game I believe we dominated at times but we failed to take our chances," Jamaica's assistant coach   Miguel Coley said, refusing to be drawn on whether he felt the overwhelming Mexican support had influenced the penalty decision. "I don't want to go there -- the referee's decision is final." rcw/gph
Marseille, June 10, 2016 (AFP) - Anything less than a win over Russia on Saturday could scupper   England 's Euro 2016 hopes, goalkeeper   Joe Hart has warned as   Roy Hodgson 's new-look   Three Lions bid to end 50 years of heartache. England take on an injury-depleted Russia at   Marseille 's   Stade Velodrome desperate to avoid a repeat of the 2014 World Cup when an opening defeat to   Italy was followed by another, 2-1 reverse to Uruguay. Russia are also anxious to put a miserable World Cup behind them. In the year of the 50th anniversary of England's 1966 World Cup triumph, their sole victory at a major finals, belief is growing that Hodgson's young side can shock bigger favourites like   Germany and   Spain . But Hart, one of the England campaigners stunned by the early return from   Brazil , said winning their "most important game" will be key if they are to face Group B rivals   Slovakia and   Wales with confidence. "Saturday is our most important game and then we're going to look to set the group up," Hart said at England's base in   Chantilly near   Paris . "And then we're going to look to win every game that comes next and see where that takes us."  - World Cup heartache - For the   Manchester City 'keeper, being "ruthless at both ends of the pitch" will go a long way to making sure they do not return home earlier than anticipated. "It probably stood out the most in the two games that we lost in the World Cup. We could have walked off easily with two victories, but we didn't," he added. On paper, England start as favourites to make a winning start to the campaign. Hodgson has assembled the youngest England squad at a major tournament since the 1958 World Cup, putting faith in youngsters such as striker   Marcus Rashford , 18, centre-back   Chris Smalling , 25, and 26-year-old right-back Kyle Walker. Rashford, still stunned at his recent call-up, scored only three minutes into his England debut in a 2-1 win over   Australia , while Smalling has been a rock at the back for Manchester United. After a Premier League season dominated by champions   Leicester City and title rivals Tottenham, Jamie Vardy and   Harry Kane are set to shoulder England's goals quest in a likely three-man attack alongside veteran Wayne Rooney. Tottenham striker Kane said he hopes to remedy the perennial problem of the players failing to replicate their club form on the international stage. "Of course it is always difficult when you come away with England," Kane said after a 1-0 friendly win over   Portugal last week. "You haven't got a lot of time to prepare like you do for your clubs. But we are England internationals. You have to be able to cope with that." Russia coach   Leonid Slutsky , meanwhile, will have to do without injured central midfield pair   Alan Dzagoev and   Igor Denisov as they look to make amends for their own early departure from Brazil. Smalling said   Artem Dzyuba , the 1.96 metre (6ft 5in) tall   Zenit St Petersburg striker who has scored nine goals in 18 international appearances, could be the biggest threat. "Our two central defenders will have to be very physical and aggressive against him. As defenders in the Premier League we are used to big guys and those challenges, and it's something we enjoy as centre-backs," he said. After a flawless Euro 2016 qualifying campaign, Hodgson and England are now hoping the Three Lions live up to expectations. But speaking after a stirring 3-2 victory over world champions Germany in March, the 68-year-old was characteristically cautious when asked if his side could win the tournament. "We still don't really know how this young group would perform in tournament conditions against much more experienced teams like Germany, who are used to reaching finals, and   France as the home nation. "But I believe in the team. Absolutely." jd/tw
Cardiff, United Kingdom, June 10, 2016 (AFP) - Wales will face old rivals   England for the first time at a major tournament at Euro 2016, but   Welsh manager   Chris Coleman insists the priority is getting a good start against   Slovakia . Wales make their European Championship debut in   Bordeaux on Sunday against Slovakia, who humbled world champions   Germany 3-1 in a friendly last month, then play England five days later in Group B before meeting   Russia in   Toulouse on June 20. "Everyone will get excited about the England game. That's fine, but I'm more excited about Slovakia," Coleman told AFP in an interview ahead of the finals. The England-Wales clash at Lens' Stade Bollaert-Delells ground next week will come 137 years after first playing each other. Hosts England secured a 2-1 win over the Welsh at   London 's   Kennington Oval on January 18 1879 in a game played on the famous cricket pitch in snow. Since then, England has beaten Wales 64 times, drawn 21 and lost only 14 times. Roy Hodgson's England had a perfect record of 10 wins from 10 qualifying matches, while Wales finished second in their group behind   Belgium to book their   France berth. While Welsh fans dream of a first win over neighbours England since 1984, Coleman refuses to get carried away in the hype around facing The Three Lions. "The England game will come and it will go, so there's no point looking just at that game, although some people are," Coleman told AFP. "It's our second game, so we are only concentrating on Slovakia at the moment, that's the big one to try and get us off to a good start. The 45-year-old says he will be using the history of Wales' first appearance at a European Championship finals to motivate his side against Slovakia, who are also making their debut at a Euro. "It's going to be a tough game against a good team and we have to take care of business in that first encounter," he said. "I think it will come down to which teams settle into their game the quickest and don't get stage fright or nervous. "It's very difficult to come away from the event itself, which is huge. "This is new territory for us and that's not something I am going to play down -- I'm actually going to big that up. "We have worked really hard to get this far, we've proved we are one of the better teams by reaching the finals. Now I want us to perform like a good team." ryj/tw
Bordeaux, June 10, 2016 (AFP) -Gareth Bale and Wales will play their inaugural European Championship finals game ever on Saturday mixing the joy of a special day with nerves over whether they can get back to winning ways. The Group B game will be the first time that a Wales team has appeared at a major tournament since June 19, 1958 in Gothenburg, Sweden, when a 17-year-old Pele settled a World Cup quarter-final in Brazil's favour and consigned the Welsh to the international wilderness. The years in between have brought a succession of failed managerial regimes and agonising near-misses, but come kick-off, the call of the country's long-suffering football fans will finally be answered. "It has been a bit surreal being here, especially with Wales having not been there so long," Bale told reporters at the team's Dinard base in Brittany on Thursday. "Whenever there was a major championship on I would be sat at home, watching on TV, so to be involved is amazing. "I imagined qualifying. It was one of my dreams to do so, but to make dreams come true is not easy." Welsh dreams were realised last October when, despite a 2-0 defeat away to Bosnia-Hercegovina in their penultimate qualifying match, Chris Coleman's side secured their place in France.  - Joy and uncertainty - The final game, a 2-0 home win over Andorra, became a 90-minute party, as players, staff and fans united in celebration of the team's feat and in memory of former manager Gary Speed, who committed suicide in 2011 after sowing the seeds of the side's revival. Jubilation, however, has given way to uncertainty in the months that have followed. Wales have failed to win any of their four subsequent friendlies, losing to the Netherlands, Ukraine and Sweden and drawing 1-1 with Northern Ireland. Bale, though, had been absent until Sunday's 3-0 loss to Sweden in Stockholm, where he came on as a second-half substitute. The Real Madrid forward's return to the starting XI, as a free electron operating behind a lone striker in Coleman's 3-5-1-1 formation, will give his team-mates -- and Wales's fans -- an incalculable lift.  - Slippery wingers - Arsenal midfielder Aaron Ramsey will line up with him, but Joe Ledley is due to start on the bench after Coleman said it would be "reckless" to start him just a month after he fractured a fibula playing for Crystal Palace. Striker Hal Robson-Kanu, meanwhile, has declared himself fit to start despite sustaining an ankle injury in a pre-tournament training camp. While Wales go in search of lost momentum, Slovakia enter the tournament on the back of an eight-game unbeaten run that includes a stunning recent 3-1 win away to world champions Germany. Jan Kozak's side also beat defending European champions Spain in qualifying and are looking to emulate their achievements at the 2010 World Cup, when they knocked out holders Italy before falling in the last 16. Like Wales, Slovakia are appearing at their first European Championship and will also come up against Russia and England in Group B. Right-back Peter Pekarik says that his team-mates are in high spirits. "The atmosphere is great," he said. "We have good experience and players from quality teams, so now it's necessary to transform our positive energy into our performance. We will do everything to keep Bale out of the game." Bale will relish the thought of running at Slovakia's old school centre-backs Martin Skrtel, the captain, and Jan Durica. But with slippery wingers like Vladimir Weiss and Robert Mak in Kozak's armoury, Slovakia are well placed to exploit the spaces left by Welsh wing-backs Chris Gunter and Neil Taylor. Slovakia's only injury doubt concerns left-back Tomas Hubocan, who has missed their last three friendly games with a toe problem. Dusan Svento will continue to deputise if he cannot prove his fitness in time. thw/tw
SEOUL: An emergency call centre in South Korea released a list of the most ridiculous requests for help it has received, including one that concerned a particularly large cockroach.   Staff at the call and dispatch centre in western Incheon city, which handled around a million phone calls last year, voted for the 10 most inappropriate requests for assistance made to emergency services.   "We've got a roach here ... a real big one. Please take care of it!" was one caller's urgent predicament.   Other callers had an array of bizarre "emergency" requests ranging from needing help obtaining the phone number of a popular movie star to a plea for assistance hailing a taxi in the rain. One female caller asked for guidance about how to make her ex-boyfriend come back to her. Another caller informed emergency services they had lost their mobile phone "somewhere on the mountain" and required help locating it.   An 85-year-old man rang the 119 number — South Korea's equivalent of 911 — after his children chastised him for having a romantic affair in his twilight years.   An official at the call centre told AFP that they could only dispatch emergency workers to actual crisis situations.   "A cockroach, no matter how big it may be, does not make the cut," the official added.   The head of the Incheon emergency call centre, Kim Joon-tae, said the vital 119 phone line must be used only for actual crisis situations, not frivolous calls.   "We really have to focus on emergencies," he said, adding the centre plans to launch a publicity campaign to reduce time-wasting requests this month.
STOCKHOLM, (BSW) -  The Danish Defence Acquisition and Logistics Organization (DALO), the Technical University of Denmark (DTU) and GomSpace has today, on 10th June, signed an agreement to develop and deploy a nanosatellite as part of a surveillance demonstration for the Artic. GomSpace will develop and deliver the satellite and launch is expected by the end of 2017.  By this agreement, the Danish Defence will have its own first satellite which can contribute to its surveillance of the Artic. The satellite, small in size measuring just 30cm x 20cm x 10cm, will have radio receivers able to track and locate all traffic of ships and airplanes within the area.  The demonstration is part of an analysis seeking to identify best-practice and future efforts reinforcing the Danish Defense's surveillance of the Artic within the Kingdom. The satellite has been named "Ulloriaq" after the word "star" in the Greenlandic language.  "We look forward to working closely with DALO and DTU on this exciting project and jointly develop and demonstrate the Ulloriaq mission" says Niels Buus, CEO from GomSpace.  Nanosatellite technology has matured over recent years and GomSpace is at the forefront of application development and commercialisation of the technology.  "Our satellite and radio technologies are a perfect match for monitoring the vast and remote arctic area with the satellite flying over the scene every 90 minutes", Niels Buus concludes.  This information was brought to you by Cisionhttp://news.cision.com    Contact  For general questions to the project, please contact from DALO: Rene Gyldensted phone: +45 72571020 mail:FMT-PICH@mil.dk or For questions of technical character to the project, please contact from DALO: Charlotte Wiin Havsteen phone: +45 5127 4089 mail:FMT-MA-OCH@mil.dk    This material is not an AFP editorial material and AFP shall not bear responsability for the accuracy of its content. In case you have any questions about the content, kindly refer to the contact person mentioned in the text of the release.  End of the Business Wire's Press Release
Paris, June 10, 2016 (AFP) -  Airbus said Friday it had started winding down its stake of just under a quarter in France's Dassault Aviation after failing to draw sufficient benefits from its shareholding in the fellow aircraft maker.  Airbus said it expects to gross 2.4 billion euros ($2.7 billion) from the sale of its 23.6 percent in Dassault, which makes the Rafale fighter plane and the Falcon corporate jet.  A first stage, a private sale of 9.05 percent in Dassault, was completed Friday, Airbus said.  Airbus also sold 5.5 percent back to Dassault itself. Both transactions were priced at 950 euros per Dassault shares, which compares with the company's closing price of 970 euros Thursday on the Paris stock exchange.  Airbus said it would issue five-year bonds convertible into Dassault shares, which should allow it to offload the remainder of its Dassault shares.  Airbus had already sold 18.75 percent in Dassault in 2015 and said that it hoped to unwind the remainder this year.  The stake sale will end a long history between the two plane makers. At the end of the 1990s, the French government sold its Dassault stake to Aerospatiale-Matra, a French company that was later incorporated into EADS, which in turn became Airbus.  Airbus has been reviewing its holdings portfolio over the past two years and concluded at the end of 2014 that the Dassault stake held little strategic interest because its minority stake gave it no decision-making power in Dassault, which is majority-owned by the Dassault family.  smr/jh/kjm      DASSAULT AVIATION        AIRBUS GROUP
PARIS: Towering Russian striker Artem Dzyubais hoping to cut England down to size when the two countries start their European Championship finals campaign on Saturday.   Russia's squad is ageing and suffering from injuries, but the 1.96m (6ft 5in) Zenit St Petersburgforward dominates the field and his recent goalscoring for club and country underlines his status as Russia's primary threat.   "I think it's a good thing that we're playing against a strong side. From the first minutes we will feel what it's like to play in the European Championship, and what's in front of us," Dzyuba said ahead of the Group B game in Marseille.   Exiled for the best part of three years following his international debut in November 2011, Dzyuba missed out on Russia's failed campaigns at Euro 2012 and the World Cup in Brazil which both ended after the group stage.   However, a move to Zenit last July - following a lengthy series of loan spells while at Spartak Moscow- thrust the 27-year-old back into the spotlight.   Dzyuba struck 27 times in 42 games for club and country last season, spearheading Zenit's run to the last 16 of the Champions League and firing Russia to a fourth straight appearance at the European Championship.   "Four years ago, before Euro 2012, which I eventually did not play in, I called myself a lion cub, but now I am a lion," said Dzyuba, who netted eight goals during qualifying.   "For me they were two massive blows, and of course it really hurt," he told Four Four Two magazine, admitting it was tough to watch as Russia struggled in Poland-Ukraine and at the 2014 World Cup.   "(But) maybe it was even a good thing in a funny sort of way, as it made me angry. It made me work on my game even more to show everyone, myself included, that I belong at this level."   At 27, he is a late developer in a Russian side certainly not lacking experience - the squad's average age of 28.57 is the third oldest in the tournament along with Italy.   Dogged by suggestions of a difficult personality earlier in his career, Dzyuba has been branded the team's joker by midfielder Oleg Ivanovand said the atmosphere in the Russia camp was "great".   His strike rate of nine goals in 18 international appearances makes for impressive reading, and Dzyuba will have England goalkeeper Joe Hartin his crosshairs at the Stade Velodrome.   "I really like Joe Hart, who is probably my favourite goalkeeper at the moment.   "He comes across as being quite charismatic, as well as being a powerful presence on the pitch. It would be a great honour for me if I manage to score against him."   Captain Roman Shirokovspoke of a quarter-final target for Russia in France, and a repeat of their last meeting with England - a 2-1 home victory in a Euro 2008 qualifier - would set the 2018 World Cup hosts up nicely for a run into the knockout stages with games against Slovakia and Wales to come.
Philadelphia, June 10, 2016 (AFP) - Uruguay were sent crashing out of the   Copa America Centenario on Thursday as Venezuela and Mexico marched into the quarer-finals. Uruguay, the record 15-time Copa America champions, were eliminated in the group phase for the first time since 1997 after slumping to a shock 1-0 loss to Venezuela in   Philadelphia . That result combined with Mexico's 2-0 Group C win over   Jamaica in Pasadena left the 2011 champions struggling to digest a humiliating early exit. "We never found the game we wanted and that cost us,"   Uruguay 's revered coach   Oscar Tabarez said, adding that the ill-fated campaign should serve as a warning to his team as they now look ahead to the resumption of 2018 World Cup qualifiers. "It's been a very different Copa America. I've never experienced something like this before. We knew it was going to be difficult but this should be a wake-up call before the World Cup qualifiers," Tabarez added. Uruguay's defeat also capped a miserable tournament for   Barcelona superstar Luis Suarez. Suarez, nursing a hamstring injury when he joined up with the squad, has so far not played a single minute. Suarez appeared in the dugout and looked visibly frustrated at his failure to get on the pitch, at one point appearing to punch the dugout wall. Tabarez defended his decision not to name Suarez in the squad. "The player is not fit to play. It's a matter of numbers. I will not select a player who is not 100 percent. Was he angry? I am not aware. To me he told me nothing," Tabarez said. Venezuela's winner came on 36 minutes, when midfielder   Alejandro Guerra cleverly spotted Uruguay goalkeeper   Fernando Muslera off his line. Guerra unleashed a long-range effort from near the halfway line which the back-pedalling Muslera could only parry onto the bar before   Salomon Rondon bundled in the rebound from close range. Venezuela's advance to the last eight is the biggest shock of the tournament so far. The Venezuelans are currently bottom of   South America 's 10-team round robin qualifying competition for the 2018 World Cup; Uruguay are on top of the standings.   - Beating 'the maestro' -  "To beat the 'Maestro' Tabarez is a privilege," Venezuela coach   Rafael Dudamel said. "For me it means a lot. He's one of the best coaches in the world, in history. This win will motivate us to keep winning and growing as a team," he added. Venezuela will now face Mexico in their final first round game to determine who finishes top of Group C. Mexico, who had beaten Uruguay 3-1 in their opening game, meanwhile proved too powerful for   Caribbean minnows Jamaica in front of an 83,263 crowd at the Pasadena Rose Bowl. With California's large population of Mexican-Americans making it a virtual home for 'El Tri', Mexico took the lead on 18 minutes when former   Manchester United and   Real Madrid striker   Javier Hernandez nodded in his 45th international goal after 18 minutes. Jamaica were denied what looked like a clear-cut penalty in the second half after striker   Clayton Donaldson appeared to have been fouled in the area. The drama came in the 60th minute when Donaldson rounded his marker before being cut down by Yasser Corona. Replays showed the defender didn't get a touch on the ball. Jamaica's misery was sealed when Mexico's   Hirving Lozano picked out   Hector Herrera in the area and the midfielder nudged the ball on for substitute   Oribe Peralta to stroke the ball first time inside the right hand upright on the 81st minute. rcw/gph
PARIS: The French authorities sent in private rubbish collection trucks to clear piles of rotting garbage from PARIS streets on Friday and told striking public sector workers they would not be allowed to disrupt Europe's soccer championship.      The eyes of the continent are on France as the Euro 2016 tournament kicks off later in the day, with 1.5 million foreign fans expected to join at least one million French supporters for the month-long sports festival.      "All the rubbish will be cleared up, starting now, today," said Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo, adding that about 50 trucks had been dispatched overnight and 30 more on Friday morning to rid the city of rubbish piling up as waste treatment workers strike.      "It will take a few days obviously."              A pile of rubbish bags in Paris. (AP Photo)      Wary of damage to France's international image, Transport Minister Alain Vidalies said train drivers would be forced to ensure public transport for fans if needed.      He and Hidalgo were speaking hours before the opening match of a tournament that was supposed to showcase the ability of a country still smarting from deadly militant attacks last November to handle a major international event smoothly.      "If requisitioning is required ... we will do it," said Vidalies. "There will be no more negotiating. There's no longer any reason to continue the strike if it's not for political reasons."      The disputes were sparked by government plans to make hiring and firing easier with a revamp of labour law, which Prime Minister Manuel Valls has repeatedly said he will not withdraw.      Public-sector waste treatment staff who have been on strike for days have vowed to continue the protest into next week and workers at the state-owned SNCF railways were on strike for a tenth day on Friday.      Air France pilots are due to start a separate four-day stoppage on Saturday in protest at pay cuts. The airline said about 80 percent of flights would go ahead.      Vidalies said the government would not tolerate any form of illicit protest such as occupation of railway tracks, a ploy used occasionally in recent days to bring transport to a halt.      One big concern was threats by some labour unions to disrupt train links between Paris and the suburban 80,000-capacity Stade de France stadium where France plays Romania in the tournament opener on Friday night.      "This is an action against France and the French people," the minister told Europe 1 radio.      Asked if images broadcast worldwide of rotting rubbish would also compromise Paris's bid to host the 2024 Olympics, Vidalies quipped: "I didn't see any hordes of rats on my way here."      The head of the communist-rooted CGT union spearheading the strikes, Philippe Martinez, said Labour Minister Myriam El Khomri had invited him to meet her next Friday, June 17, three days after a planned national protest day on Tuesday against the labour reform.      "That's what we have been demanding for months. It's high time," Martinez told Reuters. "It's better if we talk."
JOHANNESBURG, (BSW) -  Dimension Dataannounces the appointment today of Jason Goodall as Group Chief Executive Officer, as Brett Dawson, current CEO, steps down after 12 years.  This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160610005340/en/  Goodall steps into the role from his current position as Group COO, where he has been responsible for the regions and several global functions including sales, marketing, Group Information Services (GIS), HR and commercial finance. Goodall is a veteran of Dimension Data having served many roles during his 18-year career with the company.  Jeremy Ord, Executive Chairman of the Dimension Data Group said, "Brett has delivered extraordinary growth for our company over the last 12 years, quadrupling our revenues to $8bn, helped us globalise and led our transition into being part of the NTT family. Whilst this journey is far from over, I'm extremely grateful for the leadership, passion and energy that Brett has brought to our organisation.'  New Group CEO, Jason Goodall commented, "We see many opportunities for growth across both the Dimension Data Group as well as the wider NTT Group. I'm excited about the opportunities in front of us, to continue to build our winning culture, to accelerate the ambitions of our clients, our people and the communities we operate in. I'm honoured and thrilled to be stepping up to this opportunity and look forward to working with our clients, partners and employees in the near future'.  Goodall is appointed with immediate effect.  -ENDS-  About Dimension Data Dimension Data uses the power of technology to help organisations achieve great things in the digital era. As a member of the NTT Group, we accelerate our clients' ambitions through digital infrastructure, hybrid cloud, workspaces for tomorrow, and cybersecurity. With a turnover of USD 7.5 billion, offices in 58 countries, and 31,000 employees, we deliver wherever our clients are, at every stage of their technology journey. We're proud to be the Official Technology Partner of Amaury Sport Organisation, organiser of the Tour de France, and the title partner of the cycling team, Team Dimension Data for Qhubeka. Go todimensiondata.com      Contact  Dimension Data Holdings plc Hilary King, Tel : +27 11 575 6728 Cell: +27 82 414 9623 Global PR Manager Hilary.king@dimensiondata.com      This material is not an AFP editorial material and AFP shall not bear responsability for the accuracy of its content. In case you have any questions about the content, kindly refer to the contact person mentioned in the text of the release.  End of the Business Wire's Press Release
Tokyo, June 10, 2016 (AFP) - Messaging app   Line will list its shares in Tokyo and New York, reports said Friday, in what could be one of the year's biggest initial public offerings. Japanese media, including the Nikkei business daily and   Kyodo news agency, said the Tokyo-based firm was set to win approval from regulators Friday to go public as early as next month. Japanese reports said Line, which is owned by South Korean Internet provider   Naver , plans to raise about 100 billion yen ($933 million) in a sale that would value the company at around 600 billion yen. Bloomberg News cited unnamed sources as saying the sale could raise between $1 billion and $2 billion, in what it said could be the world's biggest tech   IPO this year. Neither Line nor the   Tokyo Stock Exchange would confirm the reports, but a source close to the situation told AFP that a deal was likely to be announced later Friday. "It's true that a board meeting about Line's IPO is happening (in Tokyo)," said the source, who requested anonymity. "Naver wants to push through with the IPO so the chances of the board not approving the sale is quite low." Line has already confirmed it has submitted listing documents to Japanese and US market regulators. The reported sale comes two years after Line initially announced plans to list its shares. The sale was later shelved. The offering would be the biggest in Tokyo since   Japan Post made its long-awaited trading debut in November with an IPO that topped $11.5 billion. The popular app lets users make free calls, send instant messages, and post photos or short videos, along with a host of other paid-services. It combines attributes from Facebook, Skype and WhatsApp. The firm's messaging service was launched in 2011 after the quake-tsunami tragedy damaged telecoms infrastructure nationwide, forcing staff to resort to online resources to communicate. Best known for letting users send each other cute cartoon "stickers", Line is hugely popular in Japan, particularly among teenagers. The app -- which claims to have more than 200 million monthly active users -- has a strong presence in Asian markets such as Thailand, Taiwan and Indonesia, as well as some Spanish-speaking areas, including   Spain and   Mexico . But the company has been looking to expand in bigger markets, such as the   United States . ckp-kh/pb/dan     Facebook
Vijayawada, Jun 9 () The agriculture sector in   Andhra Pradesh will get a major chunk of credit from banks this fiscal at Rs 83,003 crore of the total state credit plan of Rs 1,65,538 crore. Chief Minister N   Chandrababu Naidu today released the state credit plan for Rs 1,65,538 crore for the fiscal 2016- 17, a 32 per cent jump over last year's Rs 1,25,748 crore. The farm sector will get a lion's share of the credit from banks at Rs 83,003 crore as against a credit outflow of Rs 75,448 crore in 2015-16. A sum of Rs 25,000 crore has been earmarked for loans through   Mudra Bank launched by Prime Minister   Narendra Modi for the MSME sector. Housing sector will get Rs 12,000 crore, including Rs 7,340 crore under the Prime Minister's Aawas Yojana. "Not just getting the credit plan approved but you should display the same vigour in implementing it," Naidu told bankers at a meeting of the State-Level Bankers' Committee (SLBC) here. On the occasion, the Chief Minister outlined his government's schemes for the welfare of different sections of society and asked bankers to disburse loans to the priority sector and help the state economy grow. Naidu announced that his government would release Rs 3,500 crore, as the second installment, on June 22 towards the debt redemption scheme for farmers. He said women belonging to self-help groups would be appointed as business correspondents of banks on a pilot basis in Krishnadistrict from July 1. DBV RSY PTP MR
Seoul, June 10, 2016 (AFP) - North Korea is producing kimchi at a new plant "built under the loving care" of leader   Kim Jong-Un , who praised the spicy pickle as "one of the world's five health foods", state media said Friday. Kim made his remarks while inspecting the sprawling   Ryugyong Pickle Factory , built to supply   Pyongyang residents with the traditional dish year-round, the   Korean Central News Agency said. The plant is capable of producing 4,200 tonnes a year of the piquant, pungent and fermented vegetable -- a side dish which accompanies every rice meal for Koreans. Kim said the Ryugyong factory would set the standard for   North Korea 's industrial production of kimchi, the news agency said. He called for the construction of a modern kimchi factory in every province modelled on the Ryugyong plant. "Kimchi is one of the Korean nation's most favorite traditional dishes and it is well-known as one of the world's five health foods", he was quoted as saying. He urged the factory "to make it more delicious than that produced by individual households and thus make it a favorite dish of the citizens and the best food in the world". At a rare party congress last month, Kim stressed he would push through with his signature policy of Byungjin -- building up the North's nuclear arsenal and developing the economy at the same time. Over the past month, Kim has focused his inspection trips on facilities related to the people's daily livelihood including a new soap factory, a salt plant, a hospital and a factory producing sports goods. ckp/mtp
New York, June 10, 2016 (AFP) - Vasyl Lomachenko is already considered one of the greatest amateurs in boxing history and now he is on the verge of a second historic achievement as a professional. The two-time Olympic   gold medalist has had a storied amateur career and he aims carry that success over to the pro ranks by setting a record for winning two titles in separate weight classes in the fewest number of fights. Featherweight titlist Lomachenko is looking for a world title in the junior lightweight division on Saturday when he faces World Boxing Organization champion   Roman Martinez at   Madison Square Garden . "I wanted this fight and I am taking it very seriously. I want to do everything right from the beginning,"   Ukraine 's Lomachenko said. Lomachenko compiled a record of 396-1 as an amateur, winning two Olympic gold medals in 2008 and 2012 and world amateur championships in 2009 and 2011. In June 2014, he dominated former US Olympian   Gary Russell to claim his first world title in just his third professional fight, equaling the record for the fewest fights needed to claim a world championship. He matched the record set by   Saensak Muangsurin , of   Thailand , who won a junior welterweight belt in his third fight in 1975. A victory over the 33-year-old Puerto Rican would give Lomachenko the record for the most world titles in different divisions in the lowest number of fights as he do it in just his seventh contest. Japan's   Naoya Inoue , a reigning junior bantamweight titleholder, won titles in two different divisions in his eighth pro fight. Lomachenko was forced to move up a division for this bout because none of the other title holders in the featherweight class are game to fight him. gph/sg
LOUISVILLE: Muhammad Aliwill be laid to rest on Friday, the culmination of a two-day farewell for the beloved boxing legend and civil rights hero who electrified crowds the world over.   Thousands from near and far are expected to line the streets of Ali's native city of Louisville in the southern US state of Kentucky to bid goodbye to the three-time heavyweight world champion who died last week at 74 after a decades-long battle with Parkinson's.   Starting at 9 am (1300 GMT), the funeral procession will wind through the city of 600,000 where Ali was born at a time of racial segregation.   It will pass sites that were important to "The Greatest": his childhood home, the Ali Center, the Center for African American Heritage - which focuses on the lives of blacks in Kentucky - and, of course, along Muhammad Ali Boulevard before arriving at the Cave Hill Cemetery for a private burial.   Actor Will Smith- who earned an Oscar nomination for his portrayal of Ali on the silver screen - and former heavyweight champion Lennox Lewiswill be among the pallbearers.   An anonymous individual has pledged to cover the path to the grave with red rose petals.   Friday afternoon, Ali will be honoured at an interfaith memorial service at a large sports arena that will bring together heads of state, VIPs and fans alike.   Some 15,500 people are expected to attend - with free tickets given out in a half-hour and a black market for the coveted tickets sprouting online.   Former president Bill Clintonand comedian Billy Crystalwill eulogize Ali, while Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoganwill be in attendance.   Barack Obama will not be present at the funeral of the man he calls a "personal hero" since it coincides with his daughter Malia's graduation.   But the president published a video message Thursday in which he displayed two mementoes gifted to him by "The Champ" - a book of photographs and a set of gloves - which have accompanied him through his time in the White House.   "This week we lost an icon," Obama said in the Facebook message. "A person who for African Americans, I think, liberated their minds in recognizing that they could be proud of who they were."   "I grew up watching him. I grew up having my identity shaped by what he accomplished," he said.   "The incredible gestures of love and support that he showed me was one of the great blessings of my life."   On Thursday, thousands came together across creeds and nationalities for a Muslim prayer service in remembrance of Ali.   The brief ceremony brought together dignitaries and ordinary fans, honouring a man known for both his tenacity in the ring and his social activism outside of it.   "It was fabulous, seeing all the different nationalities, cultures, races, religions come together, even though it's a very sad situation that he passed, it's very inspirational," said Makeeba Edmund, a city employee, who is Muslim.   Muslim men and women prayed in separate rows, most of the latter with their heads veiled.   One of those paying his respects was Babacar Gaye, a 54-year-old native of Senegal who remembers watching Ali fights at a house in Dakar as a teenager.   "There would be at least 60 people watching it on a small black and white television," said Gaye.   Born Cassius Clay, the boxer converted to Islam in 1964, changing his name to Muhammad Ali and shocking America.   Thursday's prayer service was held at the site of Ali's last fight in his hometown, where he defeated Willi Besmanoffon November 29, 1961.   "Muhammad Ali has a very, very special significance for the Muslim community," Imam Zaid Shakir, who helped organize the prayer service, said earlier.   "This is about... sending him off in the very best of fashion," said the Muslim cleric, adding that Ali would want his supporters to "honour his memory, live his legacy and love each other."   For millions of Muslims around the world, Ali symbolized the true face of Islam, promoting peace and tolerance.
Cleveland, June 9, 2016 (AFP) - A profanity-laced tirade by assistant coach   Phil Handy helped inspire the   Cleveland Cavaliers to a rout of   Golden State and provide a chance to level the   NBA Finals on Friday. Usually mild-mannered Handy, the Cavaliers' director of player development, ripped into the team after a 110-77 loss Sunday to the defending champion   Warriors in game two of the best-of-seven championship series. Word of the verbal locker room lashing leaked Thursday and was confirmed by   Kyrie Irving , who followed a 10-point effort in game two with a 30-point performance in Wednesday's 120-90 romp that trimmed the Warriors' series edge to 2-1. "The speech he gave after game two just really hit home for all of us," Irving said. "It was a man-to-man speech that needed to be said, that we all understood in order to kind of will ourselves to understand that we still have a chance in this series." Handy, an   Oakland native, was embarrassed by Cleveland's flat showing in losing the first two games by a combined 48 points, the most lopsided total in NBA Finals history. "He was pissed off," Cavaliers forward   Richard Jefferson told Cleveland.com. "It means a lot to him. It means a lot to us and for us to go out there and play the way we did was embarrassing. "Sometimes people step out of their norm and say what they feel needs to be said, and it was definitely something that needed to be said." Cavaliers coach   Tyronn Lue said Handy told the team "just something we all knew, that we had to play harder, just had to continue to compete for 48 minutes, not one quarter, not a quarter and a half." "What he said was right on. And the guys accepted that. They understood it and we just moved on." Handy was able to introduce Irving to   Kobe Bryant , the superstar   Los Angeles Lakers guard who retired two months ago, and help foster a mentor relationship between the legend and the hungry young   Cavs guard. "He's the one that introduced the relationship I have with Kobe now, which is great," Irving said. "He's just awesome in terms of what he brings to this team, working guys out, making sure guys are professionals every single day. "In terms of working out late nights and doing whatever it takes to win, learning how to lead, understanding the nuances of the game and what it takes to be a great player, he has really put down the foundation. He been really influential on my life." js/rcw
HYDERABAD: For the first time in four months, Kidambi Srikanthentered the quarterfinals of an international event when he reached the last eight stage at the Australian Open Super Series with a 21-19, 21-12 win over Sony Dwi Kuncoroin Sydney on Thursday.   As expected Saina Nehwalalso advanced to the quarters without much sweat while young Indian shuttlers Tanvi Lad and Sameer Verma suffered contrasting defeats.   Tanvi went down to Wang Yihanof China 18-21, 6-21, while Sameer saved three match points in the third game before losing to Anthony Gintingof Indonesia 21-11, 721, 19-21.   Seventh seed Saina took just 37 minutes to oust Wei Goh Jinof Malaysia 21-12, 2114. Wei, who is ranked 59 in the world, proved no match for Saina. The Indian ace moved ahead from 7-9 to 13-9 in the first game and never looked back. In the second game too Saina was in complete control and hardly gave a chance to her opponent.   Saina will face former world champion Ratchanok Intanonin the quarterfinals on Friday.
 EURO 1996:    The slogan for Euro 1996 was " Football Comes Home" and with that kind of entitlement, the hosts England needed to deliver in front of their home fans. But their preparations for the event got embroiled in controversy and it involved their star player Paul Gascoigne, aka Gazza. England were knocked out in the semis by eventual winners Germany in a penalty shootout. Germany upstaged edged out the Czech Republic in the final.   EURO 2000:   Xavier loses the plot: France became the first team to hold the World Cup and the Euro at the same time after their success at the continental championship in 2000. They got more than a helping "hand" from Portugal's Abel Xavier, though. In the semi-final, with just three minutes to go in extra time, Xavier blocked a goal-bound shot with his hand. The referee awarded a penalty for France which Zinedine Zidaneconverted to take them to the final. The enraged Portuguese players almost manhandled the referee Gunter Benko and invited severe punishments including a nine-month ban for Xavier.   EURO 2004:   Greece eke out title with 1-0 wins: Otto Rehhagel's Greece side surprised everyone by reaching the final to take on hosts Portugal. Greece were exemplary with their set-piece play and once again it was a corner that sealed the title for the outsiders. Angelos Charisteas towered above the defenders to head home the most important goal in Greece's football history. This was Greece's third 1-0 win in a row on their way to the title.   EURO 2008:   Torres kicks off Spanish domination in Vienna: Spain were the perennial underachievers of world football and all that changed in EURO 2008. They played entertaining football to reach the final against big guns Germany. Late in the first half, Fernando Torresreceived a through ball, weighted to perfection, from mid field general Xavi Hernandez and outmuscled Phillip Lahm before chipping the ball gently over onrushing goal keeper Jens Lehmann. This Euro win started a period of enviable Spanish domination during which they bagged the 2010 World Cup and retained the Euro in 2012.   EURO 2012:   Balotelli's anger in stillness: A young, brash Italian provided the iconic moment of Euro 2012. In the semi-final against Germany, Mario Balotellitook a shot from way out.   But the power and the swing were too much for Manuel Neueras the ball shook the top left-hand corner of the net.   Balotelli took off his shirt and stood with an angry facial expression. With that goal, his second of the night, he put the game beyond Germany's reach. Balotelli later dedicated that win to his adoptive mother Silvia, who raised him from the age of two after he was born to Ghanaian immigrants.
MONACO: Track and field's world governing body has suspended three staff members in an ethics investigation linked to Russian doping.      The IAAF ethics board says it imposed provisional suspensions on former communications director Nick Davies, Jane Boulter-Davies and Pierre-Yves Garnier pending a probe into potential ethics violations.      The board says the three are provisionally suspended as of Friday for 180 days.      The suspension is in connection with an email reportedly sent on July 29, 2013, to then IAAF President Lamine Diack from his son, Papa Massata Diack, who was an IAAF marketing consultant.      The ethics board alleges that Nick Davies received ``an undisclosed cash payment'' in 2013 from the younger Diack, and misled IAAF investigators about the payment.
BERLIN: Germany's athletics federation chief called on the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to ban Russian track and field athletes from the Olympic Games in Brazil this year, according to an open letter published on Friday by the German magazine Der Spiegel.      Clemens Prokop wrote to IOC President Thomas Bach ahead of a June 17 meeting of the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) which is set to decide the fate of the Russian athletes.      Der Spiegel said that in his letter Prokop said German athletes were shocked by recent reports about state doping in Russia and urged him to take action.      "The findings of the recent past have shown that equal opportunities obviously have not been maintained," the magazine quoted Prokop's letter as saying.      "This means that not only were athletes cheated, but the IOC and the Olympic ideal have been deceived," Prokop wrote, asking the IOC to take action against Russian track and field athletes.      "The result can only be: The Russians must stay out."      After being suspended by the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) last year, Russia is seeking to convince sports authorities it is serious about rooting out cheats in time for the Rio de Janeiro Olympics in August.      The IAAF will decide whether Russia has done enough to have the ban overturned at a meeting in Vienna on June 17.
Louisville (Kentucky), June 10 (IANS) Thousands of people have gathered to pay their last respects to boxing legend Muhammad Ali who passed away at age 74 a week ago.      The two-day funeral began on Thursday at the Freedom Hall arena where Ali had some of the best bouts at the dawn of his distinguished boxing career. Some 14,000 free tickets were issued to attend the jenazah, reports Tass.      On Friday, his body will be driven across the streets of his hometown Louisville to the 22,000-seat basketball arena KFC Yum! Center, where the final public goodbye will be paid to Ali.      CNN quoted Ali's spokesman Bob Gunnel as saying that former president Bill Clinton, longtime sportscaster Bryant Gumbel and comedian and Ali friend Billy Crystal will be among those delivering eulogies.      According to ABC News, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and King Abdullah II of Jordan are also in Louisville to pay their tribute to the world's unmatched boxer.      Born Cassius Marcellus Clay Jr. in 1942 in Louisville, Kentucky, the legendary boxer converted to Islam in 1964 assuming the name of Muhammad Ali.      He first tried boxing gloves at the age of 12 and six years later he won gold at the 1960 Rome Olympics in the light heavyweight category.      Boasting a record of 56 wins and five losses including 37 knockputs, Ali, nicknamed 'The Greatest,' is the only boxer as of today to be named five times by respected boxing magazine The Ring as the "Fighter of the Year".      He is also the only three-time lineal World Heavyweight Champion, having won the titles in 1964, 1974 and 1978.      He reigned as the undisputed Heavyweight World Champion between February 25 and September 19, 1964, while Sports Illustrated magazine named him "Sportsman of the Century" and BBC called him "Sports Personality of the Century".      --IANS      sam/mr
NEW DELHI: Eager to assure himself an extra shot at Olympic qualification, former World Championship bronze-medallist Vikas Krishan (75kg) will take on Kenya's Nickson Abaka in an International Boxing Association (AIBA) Pro Boxing fight here on Saturday.      The world No.6, who was an Asian Games gold-medallist, will fight it out in a six-rounder at a Noida mall. The bout is being conducted under the aegis of the International Boxing Association (AIBA) and the Professional Boxing Organization of India (PBOI).      "This is a great opportunity for me and I will make the most of it," said Vikas ahead of the bout, within hours after which he would be leaving for an Olympic Qualifying Tournament in Azerbaijan with a 10-member team.      AIBA Pro Boxing's Managing Director Mirko Wolf said the bout is the world body's way of extending a helping hand to India at a time when the country is struggling on the administrative front in the absence of a national federation.      "India has huge potential and we know this. At this time, we thought what is it that we can do to help? That's how APB was brought here. I know Vikas, he is a brilliant boxer and this bout gives him a chance to be eligible for the Olympic qualifiers. We thought a talented boxer like him deserves a chance, so we are here," Wolf told PTI.      "By bringing AIBA Pro Boxing to India, we are taking boxing to a new level in India, he added.      Vikas already fought one pro contest earlier this year in Uzbekistan.      By fighting on Saturday, Vikas would be eligible to compete in the final Olympic Qualifiers in Venezuela and the Indian said he would definitely make the trip even if he books his berth in the Azerbaijan event.      "Going to Venezuela would be good for exposure. It will help me test myself against stronger guys. So I would be keen to go even if I qualify in Azerbaijan," Vikas said.      Obaka, who is a former World Military Games bronze-medallist, said the Indian should brace up for a tough contest.      "I have been in India before, it's always great to be here. I will give my best tomorrow and I can promise that Vikas won't have it easy," he said.      The PBOI is being aided by Delhi Boxing Association chief Rohit Jain in the conduct of the bout.
SYDNEY: Indonesia's Anthony Sinisuka Ginting upset world No.2 and top seed Chen Long to reach the semi-finals of the Australian Badminton Open in Sydney on Friday.      The 19-year-old Ginting, ranked 31, knocked out the Chinese star 21-14, 21-17 to set up a last-four meeting with South Korea's Hyeok-Jin Jeon on Saturday.      Ginting, a former world junior boys' singles bronze medallist, took 44 minutes to get the better of Chen.      Chen was hoping to win the Australian Open and regain the world No.1 ranking he gave up to Malaysia's Lee Chong Wei after Wei claimed his sixth Indonesia Open title last weekend.      Jeon strolled into the semi-finals after his quarter-final with Hong Kong's Hu Yun ended in a walk-over.      India's Srikanth Kidambi downed South Korea's Kwang Hee Heo 21-18, 21-17 to advance to the other semi-final where he will face Hans-Kristian Vittinghus of Denmark.      Vittinghus beat Japan's Sho Sasaki 21-14, 21-18.      India's Saina Nehwal won a marathon 54-point opening game before prevailing 28-26, 21-16 over Thailand's Ratchanok Intanon to progress to the women's singles semi-finals.      Once Nehwal edged the first game she took control to boost her confidence heading into the weekend in Sydney.      Nehwal will face Chinese fourth seed Wang Yihan on Saturday after Wang disposed of Chinese-Taipei's eighth seed Tai Tzu-ying 21-19, 21-15.      The other semi-final will be an all-Chinese affair between third seed Li Xuerui and Sun Yu.      Li eliminated Chinese sixth seed Wang Shixian 21-19, 21-17, while Yu got the better of Japan's Akane Yamaguchi 21-18, 21-9.
Cleveland, June 9, 2016 (AFP) - Defending champion   Golden State and the   LeBron James-led   Cleveland Cavaliers rallied around underperforming stars on the eve of Friday's turning point fourth game in the NBA Finals. The Cavaliers trail the best-of-seven series 2-1 despite a 120-90 romp Wednesday that has many questioning Cleveland's need for injured forward   Kevin Love and why NBA Most Valuable Player   Stephen Curry of the Warriors has had only a so-so finals start. "What made it easier is we played harder. It didn't have anything to do with Kevin," Cavaliers coach   Tyronn Lue said. "He's eager to play and we definitely need him back." Trying to bring Cleveland its first sports champion since 1964, the Cavaliers used aggressive defense and physical play to remain unbeaten at home in the playoffs, but must win again to level the series ahead of game five Monday back in   Calfornia . "It's the same mindset," James said. "We can't afford to go down 3-1 and go into their building and give them confidence, so it's a do-or-die game for us still." Curry, the NBA scoring champion and steals leader as well as a record-setting 3-point shooter, has struggled to find his rhythm and was overpowered by a blistering   Cavs start in game three after two blowout home wins to open the series. "The first six minutes of the game is going to be important for us to let them know we're here," said Curry. "It's all about our effort. They are going to play with the same energy. We have to stop that force and come with more effort and more focus." Curry backed coach   Steve Kerr 's calling the Warriors "soft" in game three. "We were," Curry said. "They were more physical. They were more purposeful about what they were doing." That was in part because Cleveland tweaked the starting lineup due to Love's absence after suffering a concussion in game two. It forced James into Love's role and changed matchups that opened more scoring chances. "He's able to make one dribble and get to the basket," Lue said of James. "He's also a great passer from there. He's able to scan and read the floor, and it's harder to double-team him from that position."   - Love could be back Friday -  The resulting rout had some calling for Love to stay out, although he practiced Thursday and if no concussion symptoms return would be available on Friday. "I just seen it on his face," James said. "It was that 'I hate that I'm going through this' moment, 'I feel like I'm letting you guys down' moment, without him actually even saying it. So before we left the locker room, I know Kyrie (Irving) embraced him. I did as well. This is what a team is all about for them to pick their brother up in a time of need. It was uplifting to him, for sure, and it was for our team as well." Irving scored 30 points after only 10 in game two but wants Love back inside as well. "When a great player like that isn't playing, guys need to step in and play at a higher level," Irving said. "What we did in game three was definitely a valiant effort for him and we dedicated that game to him." Added teammate J.R. Smith: "Kevin's an unbelievable player. We're a better team when Kevin's on the floor." "He was very upset but LeBron and Kyrie and those guys told him, 'We're going to win this game for you, so get yourself healthy,'" Lue said. "He was all happy after the game so it was a big moment for us, but we definitely need him back."   - Foul play cools Curry -  Curry blames his woes on being whistled for early fouls. "Getting into foul trouble the last two games and not letting myself get a rhythm because of that," Curry said. "You're worried about staying on the floor and the lack of aggressiveness." Golden State's   Klay Thompson will play with a bruised left thigh after what he called a dirty game-three kneeing from Cleveland's   Timofey Mozgov . "It doesn't really hold you back. It's just nagging," Thompson said. "You've just got to play through it." js/rcw
BELLEY: Edvald Boasson Hagenstormed to victory in a thrilling bunch sprint on stage four of the Criterium du Dauphineon Thursday, after a flat but windy 176km run from Tain L'Hermitage to Belley.   The Norwegian held off French pair Julian Alaphilippe and also took the sprint points green jersey from overnight leader Nacer Bouhanni in third.   Belley-born Maxime Bouet of Etixx-Quick Step led a three-man escape from early on and eventually launched a doomed final assault from 13km out, his solo effort being reeled in on the streets of his hometown with 3km to go.   Overall race leader Alberto Contadormaintained his lead but only by four seconds as Sky's Chris Froomeclimbed to second ahead of Richie Porte at six seconds in third.   There had been a moment of panic in the speeding peloton just over 2km from the line, when three riders were caught in a nasty high speed fall that shook up the finish.   Apart from the fall, Thursday was a day for the GC contenders to relax in the peloton ahead of three days in the mountains where the winner will place himself as favourite to win July's Tour de France.   On Friday the race continues with a 140km run to a summit finish at the Alpine ski station at Vaujany, which culminates with a 6.4km climb at a 6.5 percent gradient.
KINGSTON (Jamaica): Sports Minister Olivia Grange says Jamaica has become the centre of international attention in track and field and believes the country will enter this summer's Rio Olympics as the "team to beat".      Jamaica, led by World and Olympic champion Usain Bolt, have dominated the track and field aspect of recent Olympiads, and Grange said she expected this trend to continue at the August showpiece, reports CMC.      "Jamaica's sterling performance at the international level, whether Diamond League, Commonwealth Games, World Games, and the Olympics, has placed us in the centre stage in all eyes, not only on our athletes, but on our country as well," Grange said here on Thursday.      "Jamaica is seen as the team to beat despite the relatively small population and limited resources."      All 12 of Jamaica's medals at London 2012 came in track and field with a similar occurrence at the Beijing Olympics in 2008, when their 11 medals also came in this discipline.      And all eyes will be on Rio as Bolt, the reigning 100 and 200 metres champion, seeks an unprecedented clean sweep of the sprint double at a third straight Olympics.      He will be among several elite athletes expected to run at the upcoming National Championships, scheduled to run from June 30 to July 3.      Chairman of the organising committee, Ludlow Watts, said he was expecting tough battles throughout the four-day meet.      "The fact that Jamaica enjoys a supreme position in the world of track and field allows us to venture into this year's championships with unlimited pride and confidence, especially at this in an Olympic year," the Jamaica Amateur Athletics Association official pointed out.      "Fierce competition can be expected whenever and wherever our athletes line up, and that includes these national championships."
NEW DELHI: Four years ago, eight Indian boxers participated in the London Olympic Games. But with less than two months left for the 2016 Rio Olympics, only Shiva Thapahas qualified from the country. Therefore, all eyes are on Vikas Krishanwho will be fighting the all-important AIBA Pro Boxing bout against Kenya's Nickson Abakain the middleweight category at the GIP Mall in Noida on Saturday.   With Vikas needing two pro wins under his belt to take part in the Olympic qualifiers in Baku (Azaerbaijan), he doesn't want to waste this big opportunity, especially, when it's played out on home turf. While speaking to TOI on Thursday, an excited Vikas, who is ranked world No.6 in his weight category, said, "I am thankful to the organisers and the sponsors for making this bout possible."   Beside his personal goal, Vikas is seeing this bout as a boost for Indian boxers in the days to come. "This kind of exposure and decent platform will help put the country back on the world map. This will boost the system which produced talented boxers at all levels."   The Olympic qualifiers in Azerbaijanhave 39 Olympic slots on offer, with Vikas' category boasting of five berths. In fact, Vikas has fought one bout and if this had not taken place, all his hopes would have hinged on the Olympic qualifiers. "I am ready for the fight and have worked hard in the US. For the last 15 days, I have been honing my skills in India and am quite satisfied with the progress," he said.   When asked to predict how many Indian boxers could qualify for the Rio Games, Vikas said, "I am expecting at least eight Indian boxers in Rio. I am also confident to doing well in Baku and obviously counting myself to be a part of the Olympic contingent."   Delhi Amateur Boxing Association's president Rohit Jainendra Jain, the host and sponsor of the Pro Boxing night, is excited about playing a role in making this dream turn into reality. "I was thrilled to know the importance of the bout, of how it boosts Vikas' chance of making it to the Olympics and was happy to host and sponsor the event."   Leading boxer, Manoj Kumarsaid, "This bout is great news for Indian boxing. It will not only give Vikas an extra shot at the Olympics but will also inspire and motivate other Indian boxers who are currently very disillusioned. They have not been getting as much exposure as they used to get earlier and are starved of serious match practice."
KINGSTON: Jamaican Olympic relay gold medallist Nesta Carter's "B" sample for the use of a banned stimulant at the 2008 Beijing Gameshas returned positive, two sources familiar with the case told Reuters on Wednesday.   The Jamaica Olympic Association(JOA) said last Friday in a statement it had received notification from the International Olympic Committee(IOC) that one of its competitors had returned an adverse analytical result but did not name the athlete.   Neither Carter nor his agent has responded to repeated queries for a comment on the positive test.   Carter, who has helped Jamaican 4x100 metre relay teams to Olympic and world championship titles, returned a doping violation for the banned stimulant methylhexanamin in a re-test of 454 samples from the 2008 Beijing Games ordered by the IOC.   The same two sources told Reuters that the B-sample also came back positive.   Methylhexanamine has been on the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) Code prohibited list since 2004 although it was reclassified on the 2011 list as a "specified substance".   "It's now a matter of the next steps relating to the hearing," said one of the sources who spoke on condition of not being named.   President of the Jamaica Olympic Association Mike Fennelldeclined comment when contacted Wednesday afternoon.   First-leg relay specialist Carter has been a vital member of Jamaica's dominant squad, helping the Caribbean island win gold medals at the 2008 and 2012 Olympics and the 2011, 2013 and 2015 world championships.   Historically, the sanction for the use of Methylhexanamine has been a suspension of six months to a year and the loss of results from the period concerned.   Although his relay team mates Usain Bolt, Asafa Powelland Michael Fraterare not accused of doping, it is possible the IOC could strip them of their gold medals due to Carter's B-sample testing positive.   For instance, all members of the victorious American 4x400 relay squad at the 2000 Sydney Olympics were subsequently stripped of their medals after Antonio Pettigrew admitted a doping offence and had all his results from January 1997 onwards disqualified.   However, in other instances team members have been allowed to keep their medals.   When American Marion Jones was stripped of her two relay medals from the Sydney Games for doping offences, her team mates kept theirs after an appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport.   IOC spokesman Mark Adams said discussions over what to do with the medals won by any dope cheats exposed by the re-testing were ongoing.   "It is still being worked out," he said. "What we want to do, and are trying to do, is target athletes who have positive results and stop them from competing in Rio."   If Bolt, Powell and Frater lose their relay medals - they could appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS), according to an International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) rule.   Bolt and Powell could not be reached for comment. When contacted by phone on Wednesday, Frater who ran the second leg in Beijing told Reuters. "Can't comment until everything is official."   That rule, IAAF Rule 41, was passed in 2003 and implemented in March 2004.   The rule states, "the relay team shall be automatically disqualified from the event in question, with all resulting consequences for the relay team, including the forfeiture of all titles, awards, medals, points and prize and appearance money" if there is a positive.
CHENNAI: The Madras High Courton Thursday stayed an order of All India Chess Federation(AICF) banning chess player Neelash Sahaof West Bengalfrom representing India in international events for alleged match fixing during the national championship held in Gurgaon last year.   Passing interim orders on a petition by Saha seeking to quash AICF's December 21, 2015 order banning him and February 26 last letter restricting him from participating in international events, Justice M Sathyanarayanan said a prima facie case had been made out for grant of the stay.   "There shall be an order of Ad.Interim stay till July 15, 2016," the Judge ordered and issued notice to the AICF President and Union Sports Ministry.   He posted the matter for further hearing to July 15.   The petitioner submitted that he emerged winner in the national championship held by AICF from August 30, 2015 to July 9, 2015 in Gurgaon with a 0.5 point lead over his immediate rival.   By virtue of it, he became eligible for participation and sponsorship for major international competitions, including Asian Championships and World Championships.   However, AICF in a showcause notice, charged Saha with having colluded with state-mate Aronyak Ghoshand made him feign indisposition and throw a point to his advantage, thereby enabling him to emerge champion.   AICF in its December 21, 2015 order imposed penalties such as not allowing Saha to participate in any national or FIDE- rated eventor district/state championship till April 1, 2016 and not allowing him to participate in any international tournaments till Decmeber 31, 2016 representing India.   He was also stripped of the gold medal awarded to him in the Gurgaon tournament.   The petitioner alleged that apart from smacking of extreme regional bias, the showcause notice was in effect a pre-conceived order condemning him without any opportunity and on the basis of false statements.   "A player of my talent and skill need not have risked my entire career in doing any such unethical act to win the tournament when it was all but certain that I would win against Ghosh," he said.   On his appeal seeking withdrawal of his suspension, AICF on February 19 last sent a reply stating that his appeal would be placed before the General Body, he said.   But instead of convening the General Body, the AICF President suo motu wrote a letter on February 26 last relaxing the ban on him with the rider that he would be permitted to participate in domestic tournaments alone, he said.   He contended that action of restricting the revocation only to domestic tournaments revealed the larger picture and the primary motivation behind the action against him.   Stating that the major purpose of winning national championship was to participate in major international events, the petitioner said the act of AICF shows nepotism and with vested interests.
Sydney, June 10, 2016 (AFP) -  Indonesia's Anthony Sinisuka Ginting upset world No.2 and top seed Chen Long to reach the semi-finals of the Australian Badminton Open in Sydney on Friday.  The 19-year-old Ginting, ranked 31, knocked out the Chinese star 21-14, 21-17 to set up a last-four meeting with South Korea's Hyeok-Jin Jeon on Saturday.  Ginting, a former world junior boys' singles bronze medallist, took 44 minutes to get the better of Chen.  Chen was hoping to win the Australian Open and regain the world No.1 ranking he gave up to Malaysia's Lee Chong Wei after Wei claimed his sixth Indonesia Open title last weekend.  Jeon strolled into the semi-finals after his quarter-final with Hong Kong's Hu Yun ended in a walk-over.  India's Srikanth Kidambi downed South Korea's Kwang Hee Heo 21-18, 21-17 to advance to the other semi-final where he will face Hans-Kristian Vittinghus of Denmark.  Vittinghus beat Japan's Sho Sasaki 21-14, 21-18.  India's Saina Nehwal won a marathon 54-point opening game before prevailing 28-26, 21-16 over Thailand's Ratchanok Intanon to progress to the women's singles semi-finals.  Once Nehwal edged the first game she took control to boost her confidence heading into the weekend in Sydney.  Nehwal will face Chinese fourth seed Wang Yihan on Saturday after Wang disposed of Chinese-Taipei's eighth seed Tai Tzu-ying 21-19, 21-15.  The other semi-final will be an all-Chinese affair between third seed Li Xuerui and Sun Yu.  Li eliminated Chinese sixth seed Wang Shixian 21-19, 21-17, while Yu got the better of Japan's Akane Yamaguchi 21-18, 21-9.  rsm/ds
Midfielder Paul Pogba still has room for improvement in his all-round game despite being one of the most exciting prospects in world football, France coach Didier Deschamps said ahead of Euro 2016 which starts on Friday.      The 23-year-old has been a key member of Deschamps' squad since making his debut three years ago and his versatility has raised expectations of his country repeating their 1984 European-title winning campaign on home soil.      However, Deschamps said the 2014 World Cup's best young player can become even more effective.      "People expect too much of him because he has above-average technique," Deschamps told UEFA's website (www.uefa.com).      "He's not there to make the crowd rise every time he touches the ball. I've told him that sometimes he needs to play in a neutral way. He's a midfielder, not a number 10."      Pogba hopes to emulate Deschamps, who captained France to World Cup glory in 1998.      "He always gives me the advice I need to improve. I want to progress. I want to become a great player, a top player like he was," the Juventus player told the UEFA's website.      France start their Euro 2016 campaign against Romania on Friday before taking on Albania and Switzerland.
OSLO, June 9, 2016 (AFP) - Flying Dutchwoman   Dafne Schippers fired a warning shot at potential Olympic rivals with a crushing win in the 200m at the   Diamond League meeting in   OSLO on Thursday. The world champion ran a fast bend and hit the back straight ahead of in-form Jamaican Elaine   Thompson , in her outside lane. Schippers, the 2014 European double sprint champion, clocked 21.93 seconds, with world silver medallist Thompson second in 22.64sec. The Dutchwoman set the   Beijing world championships alight last year with victory in a third-fastest time ever of 21.63sec. Canada's   Andre De Grasse was almost handed a shock in the 100m by 40-year-old   Kim Collins , who blasted out of the blocks and was leading through 60 metres before pulling up in agony with a left hamstring injury. De Grasse, world bronze medallist last year in Beijing, powered past the stranded   St Kitts and   Nevis veteran to win in 10.07sec ahead of Americans Michael   Rodgers (10.09) and   Dentarius Locke (10.12). "I'm pretty happy with the race," said the Canadian, 21. "I ran my season best as I wanted." Asbel Kiprop, triple world champion, 2008 Olympic champion and current world lead in the 1500m, produced the goods to kick out on his own to win a fifth fabled Dream Mile title in 3:51.48. Kiprop, who was awarded the Olympic   gold for the 1500m after the original winner, Moroccan-born Bahraini Rashid   Ramzi , tested positive for doping, finished ahead of current world number two and world silver medallist, fellow countryman,   Elijah Motonei Manangoi , while current Olympic 1500m champion   Taoufik Makhloufi of   Algeria rounded out the podium. "I wanted to run fast but the weather changed. It became too chilly, but I tried my best!" said Kiprop. "I'm very satisfied with the season so far and my plan continues... we now head to Olympic trials and then the Games." American Briana   Rollins , world champion in 2013, won the women's 100m hurdles in 12.56sec ahead of compatriots   Dawn Harper-Nelson and Jasmin Stowers. Australia's reigning Olympic champion   Sally Pearson struggled home in last place (13.14). Two-time world medallist   Hagos Gebrhiwet claimed the 5000m in 13:07.70 in an Ethiopian podium sweep which could well send shivers down the spine of two-time defending Olympic champion and three-time world champ   Mo Farah . "I beat all other candidates for Olympics in our team today but the time was not good," said Gebrhiwet, who won world silver in 2013 and bronze last year. "In   Ethiopia we don't have trials but go by times, so I'll go to   Stockholm next week to try to confirm my Olympic selection." Olympic champion   Sandra Perkovic , with 67.10m, won the women's discus, her third consecutive victory in Oslo. Two reigning world champions also claimed victories: American Joe   Kovacs in the men's shot (22.01m) and Kenyan Hyvin   Kiyeng in the women's 300m steeplechase (9:09.57). But Kiyeng's teammate   Nicholas Bett , the shock world 400m hurdles champion in Beijing last year, could only finish sixth in a race won by Cuban-born   Turk Yasmani Copello from lane one in a season's best 48.79sec. Almost simultaneously, another Copello, Alexis - unrelated and still competing for   Cuba , claimed victory in the men's triple jump, his best of 16.91m just seeing off   France 's world indoor record holder   Teddy Tamgho (16.80). lp/dj
OSLO: Flying Dutchwoman Dafne Schippersfired a warning shot at potential Olympicrivals with a crushing win in the 200mat the Diamond Leaguemeeting in Oslo on Thursday.   The world champion ran a fast bend and hit the back straight ahead of in-form Jamaican Elaine Thompson, in her outside lane, in chilly conditions at Bislett Stadium.   Schippers, the 2014 European double sprint champion, clocked 21.93 seconds, with world silver medallist Thompson second in 22.64sec.   "To run under 22 seconds in these conditions is very special for me," said the Dutchwoman who set the Beijing world championships alight last year with victory in a third-fastest time ever of 21.63sec.   "The curve here is excellent, but I must admit that the last 50 metres were very tough.   "After all the Diamond Leagues I need to rest and train a little bit before the (July 6-10) European Championships in my country. No more races until then."   Canada's Andre De Grassewas almost handed a shock in the 100m by 40-year-old Kim Collins, who blasted out of the blocks and was leading through 60 metres before pulling up in agony with a left hamstring injury.   De Grasse, world bronze medallist last year in Beijing, powered past the stranded St Kitts and Nevis veteran to win in 10.07sec ahead of Americans Michael Rodgers(10.09) and Dentarius Locke (10.12).   "I'm pretty happy with the race," said the Canadian, 21. "I ran my season best as I wanted."   Asbel Kiprop, triple world champion, 2008 Olympic champion and current world lead in the 1500m, produced the goods to kick out on his own to win a fifth fabled Dream Mile title in 3:51.48.   Kiprop, who was awarded the Olympic gold for the 1500m after the original winner, Moroccan-born Bahraini Rashid Ramzi, tested positive for doping, finished ahead of current world number two and world silver medallist, fellow countryman, Elijah Motonei Manangoi, while current Olympic 1500m champion Taoufik Makhloufi of Algeria rounded out the podium.   "I wanted to run fast but the weather changed. It became too chilly, but I tried my best!" said Kiprop.   "I'm very satisfied with the season so far and my plan continues... we now head to Olympic trials and then the Games."   There was also a fourth meeting win for French pole vaulter Renaud Lavillenie, whose 5.80m trumped the 5.73 effort of Canada's world champion Shawn Barber.   "It was very tough in these conditions, but I'm pretty satisfied - it's a win," said the Olympic champion.   American Briana Rollins, world champion in 2013, won the women's 100m hurdles in 12.56sec ahead of compatriots Dawn Harper-Nelson and Jasmin Stowers.   Australia's reigning Olympic champion Sally Pearson struggled home in last place (13.14).   Two-time world medallist Hagos Gebrhiwet claimed the 5000m in 13:07.70 in an Ethiopian podium sweep which could well send shivers down the spine of two-time defending Olympic champion and three-time world champ Mo Farah.   "I beat all other candidates for Olympics in our team today but the time was not good," said Gebrhiwet, who won world silver in 2013 and bronze last year.   "In Ethiopia we don't have trials but go by times, so I'll go to Stockholm next week to try to confirm my Olympic selection."   Olympic champion Sandra Perkovic, with 67.10m, won the women's discus, her third consecutive victory in Oslo.   Two reigning world champions also claimed victories: American Joe Kovacs in the men's shot (22.01m) and Kenyan Hyvin Kiyeng in the women's 300m steeplechase (9:09.57).   But Kiyeng's teammate Nicholas Bett, the shock world 400m hurdles champion in Beijing last year, could only finish sixth in a race won by Cuban-born Turk Yasmani Copello from lane one in a season's best 48.79sec.   Almost simultaneously, another Copello, Alexis - unrelated and still competing for Cuba, claimed victory in the men's triple jump, his best of 16.91m just seeing off France's world indoor record holder Teddy Tamgho (16.80).
BOGOTA: The sports doctor known as " the king of doping" has been arrested in Colombiaat the request of Spanish authorities, police said Thursday.   Alberto Beltran, who has both Spanish and Colombian nationalities, was wanted in Spain for narcotics trafficking.   According to Colombia's national police, he was the head of a distribution network supplying high performance athletes -- especially cyclists -- with doping products.   Spain had issued an alert on Interpol to Colombian authorities, requesting Beltran's detention.   Beltran, a specialist in sports medicine at the Salpetriere and Cochin hospitals in Paris, was previously arrested in 2001 in Italy and 2012 in Spain for possession of doping substances.   He is currently being held at a prison in Bogota, and will be handed over to Spanish authorities.   Several cycling teams that have worked with him, including the now-defunct Spanish clubs Liberty Segurosand Xacobeo, have members who have tested positive for doping.
Belley, France, June 9, 2016 (AFP) - Edvald Boasson Hagen stormed to victory in a thrilling bunch sprint on stage four of the Criterium du Dauphine on Thursday, after a flat but windy 176km run from Tain L'Hermitage to Belley. The Norwegian held off French pair   Julian Alaphilippe and also took the sprint points green jersey from overnight leader   Nacer Bouhanni in third. Belley-born Maxime Bouet of Etixx-Quick Step led a three-man escape from early on and eventually launched a doomed final assault from 13km out, his solo effort being reeled in on the streets of his hometown with 3km to go. Overall race leader   Alberto Contador maintained his lead but only by four seconds as Sky's   Chris Froome climbed to second ahead of   Richie Porte at six seconds in third. There had been a moment of panic in the speeding peloton just over 2km from the line, when three riders were caught in a nasty high speed fall that shook up the finish. Apart from the fall, Thursday was a day for the GC contenders to relax in the peloton ahead of three days in the mountains where the winner will place himself as favourite to win July's Tour de France. On Friday the race continues with a 140km run to a summit finish at the Alpine ski station at   Vaujany , which culminates with a 6.4km climb at a 6.5 percent gradient. jm/dmc/ea
Glasgow, June 10, 2016 (AFP) -  Scotland manager Gordon Strachan says he made "a huge mistake" by agreeing to play Euro 2016 hosts France just days before the tournament.  Strachan's side gave a woeful performance as they were beaten 3-0 in a friendly last weekend.  And, rather than learning anything useful about his squad, Strachan admits the defeat heaped fresh misery on Scotland players already struggling to come to terms with their failure to qualify for the competition.  Euro 2016 kicks off on Friday when France face Romania and, writing in the Daily Record, Strachan said: "At this point I'm going to hold my hands up here and admit I made a huge mistake in taking the team to France last week for that friendly in Metz.  "All it did was give us a taste of what is about to come before having to walk away from it.  "I'm now struggling to work out what I was thinking about when I took that game on.  "I've got to take responsibility for that because I hoped our players would enjoy it but, when faced with the reality of it, they realised there's a huge tournament about to begin and we're not welcome at it.  "We saw the excitement of the people over there, the security -- the whole enormous scale of the thing -- and it made us feel even more miserable about ourselves.  "So that maybe wasn't the cleverest thing to do."  smg/pst
NAGPUR: Rucha Aurangabadkarand Shreya Dandekardid the bulk of scoring as Shivaji Nagar Gymkhana(SNG) and Dharampeth Krida Mandal(DKM) girls posted contrasting victories to enter the semifinals of the U-18 invitational basketball championship at the NKM courts, Chandan Nagar, on Thursday.   In a lop-sided game Rucha netted 12 points as district U-18 champions SNG blanked NYSS by 33 points to emerge the Pool A toppers and qualify for the semifinals. In an interesting clash, Shreya fired a game-high 24 points as DKM defeated Nutan Bharat Yuwak Sangh(NBYS) 48-27 to finish on top of the Pool B table and qualify for the last four stage of the meet.   The fourth day of the Inter-Club championship also saw a heartbreak three-point defeat for the home team from Navyuwak Krida Mandal (NKM) despite the heroic 47-point effort from Rasika Pande. Saraswati Kanya Sangh (SKS) defeated hosts NKM 62-59 in Over Time after both the teams netted 54-points in the 40-minute regulation period. Having failed to score baskets at will in the initial three quarters, NKM girls fought back in the last period to bring parity and stretch the game to Over Time. In the five-minute extra period, however, NKM girls were left without gas to go down fighting marginally by three points. For the winners, Rutuja Rotkar (15) and Pritha Mukherjee (14) played well.   RESULTS  Girls: SKS (Rutuja Rotkar 15, Pritha Mukherjee 14) bt NKM (Rasika Pande 47) 62-59 in Over Time (15-10, 10-9, 13-12, 16-23, OT 8-5); DKM (Shreya Dandekar 24, Richa Kalriya 10) bt NBYS (Abha Lad 9) 48-27 (12-9, 12-6, 12-8, 12-4); SNG (Rucha Aurangabadkar 12) bt NYSS 33-0 (9-0, 10-0, 14-0, 0-0)  Boys: GKM (Mufazzal 10, Sriram 10) bt NESA-B 42-5 (14-2, 10-3, 6-0, 12-0); SNG (Yash Gainkar 16, Sumedh Nipane 10) bt NASA (Shrikant Raut 9) 40-25 (12-6, 14-3, 2-5, 12-7); DKM (Deepanshu Madan 17) bt NYSS (Yash Jaiswal 6) 57-10 (18-0, 21-10, 2-0, 16-0).   KNOCK-OUT FIXTURES  Quarterfinals (Girls): SKS vs GKM (6am); NBYS vs NKM (7am)  Boys: DKM vs CPS (5.30pm); NKM vs (winner of NASA-PLSC, 6.30pm); NBYS vs GKM (7.30pm); SNG vs Phoenix (8.30pm)  On Saturday (Semifinals) Girls: SNG vs (winner of NBYS-NKM); DKM vs (winner of SKS-GKM).
Philadelphia, June 10, 2016 (AFP) - Uruguay were sent spinning to the brink of elimination from the   Copa America Centenario here Thursday after suffering a shock 1-0 defeat to Venezuela. Uruguay, the record 15-time Copa America champions, were left staring down the barrel of their first group phase exit since 1997 after   Salomon Rondon 's first half goal at   Philadelphia 's   Lincoln Financial Field . The defeat leaves Uruguay -- beaten by   Mexico in their opening Group C match on Sunday -- needing a miraculous sequence of results to remain in the competition. If Mexico win or draw against   Jamaica in Thursday's other game, the Uruguayans will be eliminated. Venezuela meanwhile are all but confirmed to reach the last eight, an improbable transformation in fortunes from their recent form. The "Vinotinto" are currently bottom of   South America 's qualifying standings for the 2018 World Cup; Uruguay lead the table. Yet there was no sign of the rankings gap in Philadelphia as Venezuela more than matched a Uruguay side badly missing the injured   Barcelona star   Luis Suarez , still struggling with a hamstring problem. A scrappy first half saw Venezuela take the lead in the 36th minute with a goal that owed everything to the vision of   Alejandro Guerra . The veteran midfielder was just inside the Uruguay half on the right flank when he spotted goalkeeper   Fernando Muslera way off his line. The 30-year-old let fly with an audacious long range effort and a frantically back-pedalling Muslera could only divert the ball against the bar. West Bromwich Albion's Rondon showed great anticipation to follow up and bundled the ball into the net for a 1-0 lead. Guerra was unlucky not to get his name on the scoresheet moments later, dancing clear of the Uruguay defence and getting a shot off only for Muslera to save. Uruguay barely threatened the Venezuela goal in a lacklustre opening 45 minutes. Their only chance came on 31 minutes when   Edinson Cavani just failed to direct a cross on target, clipping the outside of the post. The Uruguayans upped the tempo after the break but again struggled to get many chances on target. Venezuela almost made it 2-0 in the 68th minute with a counter-attack that ended when   Adalberto Penaranda 's low shot was clawed away by Muslera. In a frantic finale,   Paris Saint-Germain star Cavani then missed a golden chance to level it for Uruguay, skipping clear of his marker only to lash his shot wide of the post with the goal gaping. rcw/gph
OSLO, June 10, 2016 (AFP) - Dafne Schippers remains, rightly, in highly confident mood heading to the European Championships on home soil and then the ultimate test, the Olympics. The Flying Dutchwoman continued her impressive early-season form with a crushing victory in the 200m at the   Diamond League meeting in   OSLO on Thursday. In chilly conditions, the world champion benefited from a superbly-executed bend to hammer past in-form Jamaican Elaine Thompson. Schippers, the 2014 European double sprint champion, clocked 21.93 seconds, with world silver medallist Thompson second in 22.64sec. "To run under 22 seconds in these conditions is very special for me," said the Dutchwoman who set the   Beijing world championships alight last year with victory in a third-fastest time ever of 21.63sec. Her time in Oslo was a record for the Bislett Stadium and the Diamond League as well as being the season's fastest time. It left her in confident mood heading to the July 6-10 European championships in   Amsterdam . "For me it's a little bit easier than for some other athletes because I don't have trials," she said in reference to the notoriously tough Olympic trials in sprinter-heavy   Jamaica and the   United States . "They have trials, racing and competition at the highest level. I don't have that so that's good for me and for my progress." Schippers, who will only race the 100m and 4x100m relay in Amsterdam, added: "I need the Europeans as a first step to go to the Olympics. "The 100m is going well, my start is getting better and better, and I hope to race well in the European Championships and win the 100m title." The 23-year-old said she was looking forward to competing at home. "I'll have lots of family and friends out supporting me. I'm very happy to be the face of the European Championships." When asked if she thought she could beat the legion of Jamaican and US sprinters, Schippers replied: "   Yes it's possible to do it, like last year in Beijing." She has described that 200m victory in the Chinese capital as the "perfect race", having already won a silver in the 100m. "I think we surprised ourselves in Beijing," she said of herself and Thompson, who claimed silver that day. "But after all the   Diamond Leagues I need to rest and train little bit before the European Championships in my country. No more races until then." lp/dj
HYDERABAD: Kolkata based cueist Sourav Kothari(ONGC) and Delhi's Manan Chandra(BPCL) succeeded to qualify for all World events of their respective categories for the year 2016.   Kothari, who won the National Billiards Championship earlier this year, started up in the selection trails with 4000 points and earned 2916 and 3240 to accumulate a total of 10156 points and retain his No.1 position.   In Billiards, 15-time world champion, Bangalore based Pankaj Advaniof ONGC raised himself from No.5 to No.2 and confirmed his participation in all World events. Advani earned 3600 points to make a total of 9810.   In Snooker, Manan Chandra remained No.2 and earned 3240 each to make a total of 10040 and finished as No.1 followed by Mumbai based Ishpreet Chadha(GAIL), who earned 2916 and 3600, to make up 9400 and became No.2.   However, in upcoming Team Snooker Championshipat Egypt, Manan will pair with Advani as he has already been selected to represent India after being winner of prestigious IBSF World Snooker Championshiplast year.
LOUISVILLE: Two days of ceremonies bidding a poignant last farewell to Muhammad Aligot underway Thursday in his American hometown with thousands set to attend a Muslim prayer service for the late boxing legend.   Ali's native city of LOUISVILLEin Kentuckyis hosting a series of interfaith tributes bringing together VIPs and huge crowds of ordinary fans in remembering one of the indelible figures of the 20th century.   The three-time heavyweight world champion, adored for both his remarkable boxing career and his bold civil rights activism, died last week at age 74 after a decades-long battle with Parkinson's disease.   Born Cassius Clay at a time of racial segregation in the American south, the boxer converted to Islam in 1964, changing his name to Muhammad Ali and shocking America.   Thursday's 30-minute prayer service will be held at Louisville's Freedom Hall arena, the site of Ali's last fight in his hometown, where he defeated Willi Besmanoff on November 29, 1961.   Muslims in attendance will be asked to remain standing during the service, held in presence of Ali's casket, and expected to draw at least 16,000 people.   "The service is a traditional Muslim funeral," said Imam Zaid Shakir, who helped organize it.   "Muhammad Ali has a very very special significance for the Muslim community," he said.   "This is about... sending him off in the very best of fashion, and honor his memory, live his legacy and love each other as he would wish."   For millions of Muslims around the world, Ali symbolized the true face of Islam, promoting peace and tolerance.   On Friday morning, a funeral procession will wind through the city of 600,000, passing sites that were important to Ali: his childhood home, the Ali Center, the Center for African American Heritage -- which focuses on the lives of blacks in Kentucky -- and, of course, along Muhammad Ali Boulevard before arriving at the cemetery for a private burial.   Actor Will Smith-- who earned an Oscar nomination for his portrayal of Ali on the silver screen -- and former heavyweight champion Lennox Lewiswill be among the pallbearers.   An anonymous individual has pledged to cover the path to the grave with red rose petals.   The Ali family asked news media not to film the burial from helicopters.   "Please use discretion and we will encourage you not to film the burial service from afar, from your helicopters flying over the cemetery," family spokesman Bob Gunnell told a press conference Thursday.   On Friday afternoon, Ali will be honored at an interfaith memorial service at a large sports arena that will bring together heads of state, VIPs and fans alike. More than 15,000 people are expected to attend.   Former president Bill Clintonand comedian Billy Crystal will eulogize Ali, while Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan will be in attendance.   Ali visited Istanbul in 1976 and met with Erdogan's long time mentor, then-deputy prime minister Necmettin Erbakan. During that visit Ali announced his retirement from the ring to focus on propagating the Muslim faith, but he ended up fighting for a few more years.   "Muhammad Ali was not just a champion athlete or a boxing legend. He was also a freedom fighter who threw his punches for all the oppressed people in the world," said Erdogan, according to the state-run Anatolia news agency.   "Every punch Muhammad Ali threw, every word he said, every victory he won gave hope and strength to billions of oppressed people from Asia to Africa," he said at Ankara airport late Wednesday before leaving for the United States.   The free tickets to the memorial service were given out in half an hour and a black market for the coveted tickets soon sprouted online.   "Anyone selling or buying tickets online at Craigslist, eBay or any of the other sites that have those sales up will be reported to law enforcement," Gunnell said, calling the activity "despicable."
 On June 10, a play on Mahatma Gandhiwill be performed in Mumbai in three different languages — Hindi, English, Gujarati — on one single stage, a kind of a record.     My theatre background really helped me: Pratik GandhiTheater artist Pratik Gandhi, who is debuting in the Gujarati film industry with the movie, ‘Bey Yaar’ talks about how he grabbed this fun yet very engaging role.   Titled 'Mohan's Masala', it will feature actor Pratik Gandhi, who will bring Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi alive in all the three renditions. The play will give a glimpse of the freedom fighter's childhood and the experiences that shaped his future.
LONDON: The three-day sale of memorabiliabelonging to world football icon Peleended in London on Thursday with the artifactssold for the princely total of £3.4million ($5million, 4.4million euros).   The final day of the sale -- held in London but under the banner of Los Angeles based auction house Julien's -- was lit up by the sale of the 75-year-old Brazilian's third and final World Cup winners medal from 1970 which fetched £346,000.   To put that price into context, the ones from 1958, when he was just a teenager, and 1962 had sold collectively on Wednesday for £340,000.   "It was a white glove auction where 100% of all the lots sold," Darren Julien, Chief Executive of Julien's auctions told AFP.   Julien's had extra reason to be happy as they had placed an original total estimate of £3million on the memorabilia.   Another Pele item to make big money on Thursday was his 1000th game crown which eventually went for £162,000.   Wednesday's auction had seen the most money shelled out on a replica of the Jules Rimet trophy made for Pele after his third World Cup success which fetched £395,000. That was bought by Swiss watchmaking giant Hublot.   For those with shallower pockets there were things to be had.   Pele's football boots that he sported in the film Escape To Victory -- which featured actors of the calibre of Michael Caine mixed in with footballers like England's World Cup winning skipper Bobby Moore -- went for just over £8000.   A portion of the proceeds from the sale will go to help Pequeno Principe, the largest children's hospital in Brazil, which Pele said was close to his heart.   Born Edson Arantes do Nascimento, Pele is held by many as being the greatest footballer in history.   He scored 1,281 goals in 1,363 matches, appeared 91 times for Brazil between 1957 and 1971 and played his club football for Brazil's FC Santos as well as the New York Cosmos.
Jose Mourinho, settling into life as the new boss of Manchester United, will be rubbing his hands in prospects at what the Euro can throw up in France.   Given his attempts to lure John Stonesaway from Everton to Chelsea manager last season, Mourinho is bound to launch a fresh bid for the 22-year-old England defender. What adds to the mix is that Manchester City's Pep Guardiola too are believed to be leading the race for Stone's signature.   Meanwhile Zlatan Ibrahimovic, gearing up to shine at possibly his last Euro, appears set to finally grace the EPL through a reunion with the 'Special One' at Old Trafford.   One man who will have a bird's eye view of the action in France is Italy coach Antonio Contewho will assume command at Chelsea next season. One such player is Radja Nainggolan, the AS Roma-owned Belgian who will cross paths with Conte's Italy side in the opening Group E clash for both teams.   Belgian footballers appear to be generating the most buzz in the transfer market. Romelu Lukakuis another thoroughbred from the Belgian stable whom Conte is said to be keen on adding to the likes of Eden Hazardand Thibaut Courtoisat West London.
He's already tried his hand at directing, acting and has been a lyricist as well, and now, Thambi Ramaiah is going to sing for Asurakulam, in which he plays one of the leads. It is a folk song, Polladhava Pombala, the music for which has been set by C Sathya (the lyrics are by Yugabharathi), who has composed music for the film. Says Sathya, "I worked with Ramaiah sir in Nedunchalai. Once, he casually sang a song during a jamming session, too. And he was absolutely good. In this album, there is a song that required a raw voice. I remembered Ramaiah sir's flawless rendition and made him record this one. This is the first time I am making an actor sing, and I must say that he has sung really well." Ramaiah, himself a "huge fan of the MSV-KannadasanTM Soundarajan combo," says that he enjoyed this singing stint. "Their songs touch the listeners' hearts and I've always enjoyed singing their songs. But I could never learn singing professionally. Sathya heard my voice when we were recording for Nedunchalai and asked me to record this one. This song is inspired by MSV's Veedu Varai Uravu -Yugabharathi took the essence from the classic and wrote a song that would suit today's times. This number is mean ingful and I enjoyed recording it."
NEW DELHI: Rio-bound Saina Nehwal moved into the semi-finals of the $75,000 Australian Open Super Series with victory in straight sets over second-seeded Ratchabok Intanon. Saina, ranked seventh in the world badminton rankings, beat her Thai opponent 28-26, 21-16 in the quarter-finals on Friday in Sydney.      In the men's single event, K Srikanth overcame Hee Heo Kwang 21-18, 21-17 in a 36-minute quarter-final clash and will take on Denmark's Vittinghus Hans-Kristian in the semi-finals.      Saina trailed briefly early in the first game against Intanon - who was world champion in 2013 - but rallied superbly to force a tie-breaker. Thereon, she was on top of her game and pushed Inchanon into some faulty returns. The entire match lasted 56 minutes. The result gave Saina a 7-5 head-to-head record over her rival.      Saina, 26, will now face fourth seed Yihan Wang in the semi-finals on Saturday against whom she trails 4-11.
Award winning music composer Gopi Sunder will compose music for Pritviraj-Indrajit starrer movie 'Tiyan'.      The film scripted by Murali Gopy and directed by Krishnakumar will bring back the Mollywood brothers once again on screen. The movie will also have Shine Tom Chacko and Ananya Nair on screen. 'Tiyan' had already shot some of its portions at the Kumbh Mela in Nasik.
NEW DELHI: It's not often that a team that finished six in the preceding season lauds up their chances of finishing winners, but Dabang Delhi has seldom gone about their business in the usual way. Having ousted 18 of their 20-man squad, the "team is fresh and raring to go" ahead of the fourth season of the Pro Kabaddi League, says new head coach Sagar Bandekar."It's good to have young blood in the team. I see a lot of hunger in them and the preparation is going very well. We are confident of putting on a good show and winning the trophy this time," he told TOI."The friendly environment within the team is refreshing. The mood in a camp is often an underrated aspect, but it is very important in such tournaments," he said.Given how things turned out for them last time with the manager lashing out at the selection policy and ex-captain Ravinder Pahal, too, questioning the workings of the team, an overhaul may well be the right step. But despite that, of the two players retained by Delhi - Kashiling Adake and Selvamani - the former remains the 'new' team's biggest asset, Bandekar said.'Kashiling, being one of the senior most players in the team, is definitely our best bet. We are also expecting a lot from Deepak Narwal," he added.'Dabang hain toh dabang ke tarah hi khelenge'Narwal, Delhi's biggest purchase during the transfer window at Rs 28 lakh, said that he's raring to make an impact for his new team. "The transfer sum shows that the franchise has shown lot of trust in me and my job is to prove them right. I am feeling at peak of my fitness. It (the money involved) doesn't weigh me down, it inspires me," Narwal told TOI."We are looking like a formidable unit. We will do well this season. Dabang hain to dabang ki tarah hi khelenge," he said when asked about how the team is shaping up.'Kabaddi is our primary language'In a franchise-based tournament, where players are not only picked from across the country, but from other nations too, Narwal says communicating with teammates is never a problem. "Kabaddi is our primary language. Once you know the sport, you automatically begin to understand each other."The fourth season will start on June 26.
The track list of Rajinikanth's Kabali was released online Wednesday evening, and fans of the actor had a pleasant surprise. For, under the track, Neruppu Da, the Superstar was credited for `dialoguesad-lib verses'. The song, which plays over the film's teaser, has already become a favourite of fans, with many using it as their ringtone.While this rap song has been written and sung by Arunraja Kamaraj, we hear that Rajinikanth has also been credited in this track because some of his punchlines in the film are featured in it. We assume it also includes the catchphrases that the Superstar uses in the teaser like `Maghizchi' and `Kabali Da'. In an effort to downplay the hype around the film, the makers are going in for a quiet audio launch, so the songs will hit the stores directly.










Singer Harbhajan Mannsays when his song 'Gallan Goriyan'came out in the 1999, it got him rave reviews from NCR's music lovers. Around that time, he started doing almost 20 concerts a year in the city. "There is no college in Delhi where I have not performed. There's a big population of Punjabis in Delhi and otherwise also, Delhiites love Punjabi music. My fondest memory is of my performance at Talkatora Stadiumsome 15 years ago. My fans came in hordes and all they wanted was a photograph with me or my autograph. Delhi has given me a lot of love," says the actor and singer.     Harbhajan Mann: Punjabi cinema is not just about comedy, there's a lot more to itAn exponent of mean ingful cinema in Punjabi industry, Harbhajan Mann has canvassed for profound plots rather than mere slapstick humour. With over a dozen Punjabi films in his kitty (his first as an actor was Jee Aayan Nu in 2002 followed by Dil Apna Punjabi,Jag Jeondiya De Mele, Haani), Mann feels experimentation works only when creative leeway doesn't go overboard.    Listen to the songs of Harbhajan Mann on Gaana.com    Harbhajan Mann: Rumaal04:45







Boys who show empathy are more likely to attract girlfriends than their low empathy counterparts, a new study has found, suggesting that adolescent males and females select empathic classmates as friends.   The findings showed that boys high in cognitive empathy attracted an average of 1.8 more girl friendships than low empathy counterparts.   Also, girls are more likely to nominate empathic boys as friends.   In contrast, girls with empathetic qualities "did not attract a greater number of opposite sex friends," the researchers said.   "Friends are essential to positive adolescent development. It's well established that in addition to providing companionship, close friendships promote the development of interpersonal skills, learning, and growth. Having friends has also been linked with lower rates of depression and, to people feeling good about themselves," said Joseph Ciarrochi, Professor, at Australian Catholic University.   For the study, published in the Journal of Personality, the team analysed 1,970 students in Queensland and New South Wales with average age of 15.7 years.   The researchers defined cognitive empathy as the capacity to comprehend the emotions of another person.   They asked students to nominate up to five of their closest male and five closest female friends in the same year.   The more friendship nominations a boy received from either boys or girls, the more they felt supported by their friends; the number of friendship nominations received by girls, in contrast, had no effect on their felt support by friends.   "Regardless of the quantity of friendship nominations, empathy was linked to more supportive friendships for both males and females," Ciarrochi added.   "This research suggests it is critical to identify and teach young people the skills they need to develop supportive friendships. To that end, our study provides a contextual understanding of the role of empathy in selecting and maintaining friendships," Ciarrochi noted.
KOCHI/THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala's new sports minister EP Jayarajanseems to moving from one controversy to another.   Barely four days after being trolled in social media for his remark on deceased boxing champion Muhammad Alias 'a Keralite who brought glory to the state', Jayarajan got embroiled in yet another controversy on Thursday when Kerala State Sports Council(KSSC) president, Olympian Anju Bobby George, alleged that the sports minister had insulted and humiliated her when she met him at the state secretariat in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday.   The lone Indian to win a medal in World athletics championship, Anju is miffed with the behaviour of Jayarajan so much so that she is contemplating stepping down as KSSC president. Anju confirmed to TOI on Thursday that the minister told her she was clinging on to KSSC president's post and since she is a Congress worker, the new LDFgovernment will have to rethink about her future as KSSC president. He later denied that he had insulted Anju.   "This is the worst humiliation I have faced in my life. I have no political affiliation at all," Anju said.
Raising a child who hails from a generation that struggles to cope with social anxieties can be unnerving. The trick is to strike a balance between extreme parenting styles. The new generation is so fraught with pressures, hyper expectations, family discord, experimentations, stress and anxieties that parenting becomes even more confusing, challenging and stressful.      Mental health problems in children, adolescents and young people are on a drastic rise with high rates of conditions such as depression, suicide and substance abuse. Is this all created by circumstance, environment, genes, personality traits or physiological, biological and neuro-chemical factors? Alternatively, does parenting play a colossal role in who our children will be and how healthy they will be psychologically or emotionally?      What is unnerving is that today, as a parent and professional, I know that so much is not within our control. We can monitor, supervise and ensure healthy diets, habits, homework, play dates, activity classes and holidays. But how do we safeguard and protect our children from peer pressure, bullying ostracisation, sexual or physical abuse, the burden of educational systems, substance abuse, eating disorders, anxiety attacks or depression? How do we protect them from some of their own thoughts or pressures, unhealthy coping mechanisms or psychological distress? Should we become a generation of hyper-parents with excessive supervision, monitoring and over-involvement, or do we allow them to make mistakes, fall, hurt, make bad decisions and learn from them? Or, should we love them so intensely so as to stifle and suffocate them, or give them space and allow them to be more independent and individualistic with more freedom?      Over-involved parenting has higher chances of your child being extremely dependent on you. They may grow up to have limited independent thinking skills, difficulty with decision making, poor coping mechanisms and problem solving abilities with low self-confidence, self-esteem and poor social skills. Such children may not be equipped to handle stress and develop anxieties and sometimes irrational fears. As they grow into their adolescent years they may be subdued and introverted with suppressed emotions.      In the case of authoritarian parenting styles, the child may become oppositional, defiant and retaliate to authority. This may also lead to poor anger management and aggression. On the other hand, over permissive and uninvolved parenting leads to feelings of neglect and poor social connectivity. This, in turn, may confuse the child with regards to his or her personality development and may lead the child to be over dependent on the next closest person providing that attention.      This, in some cases, could lead to early dating or getting involved sooner in a relationship.Children such as these appear to grow up too soon and may be termed precocious. Studies and educational paths may also get affected.      Thus spectrums of parenting styles in their extremes are not healthy and sometimes can be damaging to the child's emotional and psychological wellbeing. So one must follow that intelligent, mindful and intuitive middle path. One must approach this generation with the right Balance. Balance equals Prevention. Today, with such varied exposure to social media, wealth and access to far more information than we ever had -and with the emergence of smaller nuclear and professional families -our children mature faster with each passing generation. They think faster, need instant gratification and want answers for almost everything. Gone are those days when we could say "because I'm telling you so..."      So what can we do in these new times? How do we communicate with our young generation without sounding preachy or authoritative? There is no real answer to these questions. There are no specific do's and don'ts -the reason being that every child is, firstly, different.      Parenting has to be mindful, individualised, intuitive, empathetic and well thought of. We have to be one step ahead always. We have to be far more aware and introspective when it comes to dealing with this new generation.      We have to balance out being a friend and a parent masterfully. We have to keep every mode of communication open and transparent. We have to teach and lead by example only. We cannot parent on hypocrisy and double standards. We cannot teach them to be emotionally intelligent when we ourselves have a long way to go with our own biases, discriminations, orthodox thoughts, religious or spiritual beliefs, coping mechanisms or wrong lifestyles.      There are so many kids who are confused. They do not know what is expected of them or their behaviours. They are not sure how to balance their attitudes and cannot cope when under regular life stressors. The Balance empowers them to think independently and freely. It allows them to have healthy coping mechanisms and better problem solving abilities. It allows them to express themselves freely and yet not misuse that freedom as they realise their place within boundaries. They know that even if they make mistakes we shall always be there for them. They learn to find peace within themselves rather than seek constant affirmation or happiness through their peers or materialism.      Always remember, love is the absence of judgement. You need to love your child unconditionally and completely, by first accepting him the way he is.      Dr Zirak Marker is a child and adolescent psychiatrist. He is also the author of Parenting In The Age Of Anxiety. This column is Part 1 of a two-part series.


They are young, famous and breathtakingly beautiful. Well, we are talking about none other than our very own B-Town celebrities, who exercise inexplicable control on our minds, so much so that at times we end up aping them blindly. And, guess that's pretty much the reason why we too have our bad makeup days like our beloved idols.  To err is human, and Bollywood celebrities prove this saying every now and then, when they venture out of their multimillion homes, not looking like a million bucks. We love them as much as you do, but today, we can't stop ourselves from pointing out some common makeup mistakes some of these celebrities make every day. And, to help you from making the same mistakes, we got in touch with celebrity makeup expert and Executive Director of ALPS Cosmetic Clinic, Gunjan Gaur, who lists some of the makeup blunders celebs make.  1. Well, we do love bronzer, don't we? But, overdoing it to get a sun-kissed glow is a no-no. Steer clear from using a bronzer all over your face to get that fake tan Bollywood beauties swear by.  2. Sometimes, celebrities opt for a heavy eye shadow, especially for parties and to top it all, they wear thick fake eyelashes, which makes their eyes appear overdramatic. And, that gets a complete thumbs down from us.  3. Using a pencil to fill up your eyebrows is the most useless makeup trick ever. Making your eyebrows even with an eyebrow pencil is one thing, but using so much of it that all the attention goes to your brows is an absolute blunder. We suggest, you use a kohl/eyebrow powder and a thin brush instead of a coarse pencil to do the needful to give get that perfect natural shape to your eyebrows.  4. Celebs are often spotted wearing patchy concealers in order to hide their dark circles. The best way to hide those under eye dark patches is to use a concealer which has a peachy tone and goes best with the Indian skin tone.  5.  Too much tweezing can give the eyebrows an over plucked look, a common beauty mistake that Bollywood babes make. To fix thin eyebrows, use a dark powder and thin brush to fill in the gap as mentioned above and opt for an eye shadow shade that is matte and two shades paler than the natural eyebrow hair colour. 6. Obnoxiously contrasting lip liners are passe now as they make the mouth look artificially drawn on and unappealing. Opt for a lip liner that is same as the lip colour to get a more natural look.  7. Nothing can be more sinful than your makeup ending on your jaw line - again, a common mistake B-Town beauties make. This blunder can be attributed to opting for a wrong shade of foundation and forgetting to blend the makeup.
No matter how many overpromising fairness creams might sound, the truth is that what makes a person beautiful is maintaining a healthy lifestyle and a positive outlook. Dark is beautiful and certainly demands as much attention as a light skin-tone would need. We spoke with celebrity cosmetologist Dr. Blossom Kochhar to dig the enigma of glamming up if you have a dark skin.      Indian believe that fair is beautiful but we all know about 'the dark beauty'. If taken care, dusky skin can beat the 'sexiness' of a fair skin. What is your opinion?      Sadly in India, we equate beauty with fair skin. It is a constant buzz and we grow up being conditioned that 'fair skin means beautiful'. The ads do not help at all.      The word beautiful must not be associated with just fair skin. A person can be dark or brown toned and still be beautiful. In a country that is obsessed with fairness, we need to ask ourselves, do we maybe still have hang-ups of the colonial era!      How important is  skincare  discipline for dusky skin?      Everything depends on skincare discipline. Our skin does a lot of important functions for us but most times we do not treat it well.      A good skin care discipline begins with ensuring that the skin is cleansed well, toned, moisturised and protected from the UV rays by using a sunscreen or a sun block. What kind of product needs to be used depends on individual's skin type.      It is believed that moisturizing or oiling deepen the skin tone. Is that true? If not then which kind of moisturizers would you recommend to people with dusky skin?      Moisturisers do not deepen skin tone.      A moisturiser is a must for all types of skin. Regardless of the skin tone, if one has a dry skin, one must use a lotion based moisturiser but if one has oily skin, oil-free moisture is recommended.      Which hair colours would you recommend for a dark skin tone?      I would suggest:      Warm chocolate shades    Auburn Hued    Sun kissed blonde shades    Brunette hue      These can be added to the hair in the form of highlights, balayage or ombre all over (Global). These colors flatter the skin tones and make it look outstanding.      What should be the skincare regime for dark skin?      There is no difference in the skin care routine. Regardless of the skin colour, in order to have good skin or to maintain good skin, one must follow the classic steps of skin care - CTM + S. This means cleansing, toning, moisturising and sun protection. What SPF numbers are to be used depend on the lifestyle (more of indoor or outdoor), texture (lotion, cream or gel) depend on the skin types.      Should applying foundation be a no-no?      There is no problem in using/ applying a foundation on a daily basis as long as one removes the foundation in the evening with a make- up remover. We recommend foundations with SPF nos.      Any other advice you would like to give?      No amount of cosmetic application or usage will help if we do not maintain a healthy lifestyle and take care of our diet. Have a positive outlook in life no matter what the situation or circumstance one might be going through and develop skin care discipline. They all go hand in hand.
Would you be grossed out completely if you were asked to use human or sheep afterbirth in your beautyregimen? It definitely does not sound pleasant. But, according to cosmetologists and dermatologists, placentafacials aka a beauty treatmentusing placenta extracts, is a hot trend. Many city women are taking to it in order to rejuvenate their skin.   How is it done?  "Placenta facials involve stem cells, which are infused into the skin with microdermabrasion followed by ionisation of the placenta extract into the skin along with facialtherapy," says Dr Shefali Trasi Nerurkar, consultant dermatologist. She says that this rejuvenates the skin and removes pigmentation. Cosmetologist Dr Jaishree Manchandasays, "The key ingredient is extracted from animal and human placenta, which is a main source for us to treat anti-aging. Skin experts employ stem cells (from sheep placenta) while others prefer the protein-rich extract from human placenta in the form of a serum.   How does it help you?  Experts say that placenta extract has a rich, historical precedent in the field of health and beauty. Dr Manchanda says, "Placenta is full of nutrients, minerals, amino acids and proteins. The nutritional extracts heal skin by treating acne, rosacea, dull skin and signs of ageing." Placenta extract can be used with electroporation for face, topical daily creams or serums, with dermaroller for face and hair or with a mask.     Latest make-up trends showcased at Lakmé Fashion Week 2016Lakmé make up artist Daniel Bauer highlights the beauty trends spotted on Bollywood celebrities at the Lakmé Fashion Week Summer Resort 2016    What does it do for your skin?   Placenta facials basically involve the use of stem cells derived from sheep and/or human placenta that work as an anti-ageing and rejuvenating treatment. Dr Nerurkar says, "This treatment promotes the growth of collagen and reduces the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles. It improves the texture of the skin and lessens pigmentation and scars."  Dermatologist Dr Geeta Oberoisays, "The rich placental extract contains an abundance of stem cells, vitamins, growth factors and enzymes, which help the body and skin to heal and repair itself."  Any side effects?  All beauty treatments (including procedures like bleach, botox, threadlift, waxing or a facial) do have some temporary side effects — be it slight redness, itchy skin or dryness etc. Dr Geeta explains, "The placenta facial could lead to allergic reactions in some and manifest as itching, redness on the skin. However, this reaction is temporary and subsides in a few hours." Every placenta extract goes through a strict screening procedure, say experts. It is usually a safe treatment but could lead to skin irritation, redness, feelings of burning and stinging. Some experts state that it could also lead to rash, fever, itching, etc   How often do you need it?  Dermatologists say that one should initially get one or two sessions of placenta extract twice per week for one to three months. Later, the maintenance dose requires around one session per month.   Benefits  It is considered an effective skin-firmer, lifter and hydrator. It also treats acne-prone skin and skin that has been damaged from over-exfoliation. The stem cells derived from sheep placenta are also used for their anti-ageing properties as they promote collagen production and increase skin elasticity.   Did you know?  Mammals are known to indulge in placentophagia — the practice of consuming placenta in order to replenish and rejuvenate after the birthing experience
Bill Gates is launching his latest scheme to help sub-Saharan Africans living in extreme poverty: he's giving them chickens.      Gates will donate 100,000 birds vaccinated against common diseases under a program he said would boost incomes because chickens are inexpensive to care for, a good investment and help provide nutrition for children.      "If I were living in extreme poverty, I'd want to raise chickens," the Microsoft founder and billionaire philanthropist said on his Twitter feed on Thursday.      Gates said a farmer starting with five hens could earn $1,000 a year, compared with the extreme poverty line of $700 a year. Eventually Gates wants to help 30 percent of rural African families raise chickens, up from 5 percent now.      Gates' wife Melinda, co-chair of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, said breeding chickens can also empower women by giving them a source of income, which they are more likely than men to spend on education and healthcare.      Some critics said the program was a publicity stunt and wouldn't solve the underlying problems of poverty in Africa. "Our father, Who art Uncle Bill, Hallowed be thy whims ..." Nigerian satirist and author Elnathan John wrote on Twitter.      Gates acknowledged that some might scoff at the plan, but insisted that he believes it will have an impact. "It sounds funny," Gates wrote on the project's website. "But I mean it when I say that I am excited about chickens."      The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, one of the largest private charities in the world, has invested heavily in Africa, tackling a wide range of issues in healthcare, education, women's rights and poverty alleviation.
What's good food without a good debate?      Put a bunch of argumentative Kolkatans together, and you can't escape the following: Don't you think Arsalan biryani is the best? But I've always liked Royal more.But they don't put aloo! That's sacrilege! Forget that. Which is your favourite fish fry place? I love Mitra Cafe. No, but I think... And so it goes on and on. For this story, we decided to pick a few dishes that Kolkatans pride themselves on and go on a quest of some hidden gems -lesser known outlets, but with mind blowing food -that serve these delicacies. And we found a glorious trail. Yes, it's time to dig in!      RAJ SPANISH CAFE (SUDDER STREET) POCKET PINCH:  Rs  80-270      There are breakfast places that give you monogrammed crockery, a swish set of clients and a genteel ambience. And then there's Raj Spanish Cafe. Bang in the middle of the firang para on Sudder Street, this is a lively restaurant that serves the heartiest of breakfasts north of Park Street. The menu is a mix of Spanish, Italian and Mexican and the place draws the motley backpacker crowd. Don't be surprised if you strike up a conversation about the crisis in Syria or the art scene in Paris over a cup of coffee. Somenath Ghosh, a regular at the cafe, says, "The decor is quite eye-catching because of the graffiti. Their grilled tuna sandwich tastes heavenly."      This is the place to plan that long-pending weekend breakfast with friends.      THE BLUE POPPY (SIKKIM HOUSE, MIDDLETON ROW) POCKET PINCH:  Rs  100-300      If you're a momo freak, then this restaurant should be your perfect destination for a gastronomic journey. A favourite among college-goers, the momos here -be it fried, steamed or pan-fried -sell like hot cakes. With traditional Tibetan decor and friendly staff, this restau rant is extremely affordable. Anisha Roy, a customer, says, "Their mixed thukpa is to die for and the gen erous amount of chilli garlic sauce they serve with the momos is perhaps the best in town." Apart from the regular momo and noodles, you can also try some of their exotic Nepali delicacies. Don't miss out on their version of Bhutan's national dish, ema datse!      INDIA RESTAURANT (KIDDERPORE) POCKET PINCH:  Rs  150-280      So, it's a full meal of Basmati rice, meat, potato, spices and ghee. So what's the big deal about the Kolkata biryani? But there is, especially if you're someone who revels in the subtle differences -the khushboo, the zaika -that each establishment offers. So which is the best? If you take the complete bouquet of tastes and flavours of the Kolkata biryani, our vote goes to India Restaurant. Established four decades back, this busy eatery near Fancy Market in Kidderpore uses authentic Lucknowi spices to get the perfect taste of the biryani. It helps that there are quite a few varieties on offer, including the superb kachchi biryani. Vicky Chen, manager of the restaurant, says, "Even on a regular day, we do good sales, be it at our restaurant or from the takeaway. We don't really think we should compete with any other restaurant over the quality of biryani. Each establishment offers something unique. Our chefs are trained in the art of making Lucknowi biryani." It's time you checked this place out.      TUNG NAM (TERETTI BAZAR) POCKET PINCH: Rs 90-190      It's not quite Hong Kong, but Terreti Bazar is the heart of Kolkata's old China Town. This is where you can try the legendary Chinese breakfast. Or buy some exotic sauces and sausages for your kitchen. So, when Tung Nam opened here in the early 2000s, gourmets sat up and took note. Don't go by the ambience or decor. With its plastic seating and melamine crockery, this is more of a Chinese eating house than a restaurant. Let's focus on the food instead -mei foon, noodles and rice, meats in a variety of sauces including the invigorating hamei sauce -this is where you come for a lazy Sunday lunch.Suzanne, the owner, says, "Even though it's a non-AC restaurant, we still have decent footfall every day. I think it's due to the quantity and quality of our food." The best part is they even have an outlet in Tollygunge now.      PARIJAT RESTAURANT (THEATRE ROAD-CHOWRINGHEE CROSSING) POCKET PINCH:  Rs  25-50      What would Kolkata street food be without the kati roll? And across the length and breadth of the city, there are thousands of outlets selling myriad versions of this lip-smacking delicacy. So you can have it with an aloo or meat filling, with sauce or without, single egg or double. But we think Kolkata's best rolls are served at Parijat.It's an uncomplicated delight. The parathas are thin and perfectly flaky, the juicy kebabs are made on a tandoor in front of you and the roll, as purists would recommend, is best had without sauce. Their chicken and mutton tikia rolls fly off the shelves by 7 pm. There's nothing better in Kolkata to beat the evening blues.      RAJ RESTAURANT (MANOHARPUKUR ROAD) POCKET PINCH: Rs 70-140      If you're a fitness freak and south Indian is your favourite cuisine, then you have to try the food at this hidden gem a few minutes' walk from Hazra. Their range of low-oil dishes includes idli, upma and sada dosa. Rajib Das, manager of Raj Restaurant, says, "We are a complete vegetarian restaurant, but nowadays I see many Bengali customers turning up in addition to the regular non-Bengalis. Our main aim is to keep the prices of the items pocket-friendly yet never compromise on the quality." The restaurant is packed to capacity during lunch time and their mini south Indian meal is a hit among office-goers.Once you've polished off the sambar and rasam, don't forget to order their house special filter coffee.      THE BENGAL HOTEL (BEHALA) POCKET PINCH:  Rs  85 PER PIECE      You might serve chowmein-chilli chicken on popular demand, but the proof of the pudding, as it were, at an old Kolkata cafe is still the quality of their fish fry. Is the bekti fillet thick enough? Is the fish melt-in-your-mouth? Is the kasundi fresh and zingy? Bengal's fish fries, the succour of generations of Behala residents, say an emphatic yes to all the above questions. Established in 1960s, this tiny, nofrills eatery is a cut above the rest. "The quality of a fish fry depends a lot on the oil one uses to fry them, apart from the fish used. We never keep any leftover oil. It feels great when customers from as far as Rajarhat come to our shop to savour the fries and say, `ekhane ami ashtam chhotobelaye dadur hath dhore, tokhon ar ekhon kar taste ekdom same ache'," shares Pratima Seal, owner. *Prices are indicative of one serving
The origami cranes made by US President Barack Obama, who donated them to the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum during his visit to the city, will be exhibited in the museum, starting Thursday.      Along with the cranes, the museum will also display the message the US leader wrote in its guest book, a museum spokesperson told Efe news.      "We have known the agony of war. Let us now find the courage, together, to spread peace, and pursue a world without nuclear weapons," wrote Obama, the first sitting US president to visit Hiroshima, where Washington had dropped an atomic bomb on August 6, 1945.      During his historic visit to the city in May, the US leader presented two cranes to the museum, which explains the effects of the bomb on the city and its inhabitants, and gave another two to local students.      These figures, made by folding paper, have become a symbol of peace ever since they were popularised by Sadako Sasaki, a victim of the nuclear bombing who died at the age of 11 of leukemia.      The US president visited Japan to attend the G7 summit, held in the Ise-Shima national park, from where he travelled to Hiroshima to pay tribute to the victims of the atomic bombing.
Kanak restaurant in Trident lays emphasis on the rich culinary heritage of India.      Located in the heart of Hitec City,it is a great place to spend time with family and friends as you savour authentic Indian cuisines from across the length and breadth of the sub continent.      Decor    With an Indian theme, the ambience is classy, hypnotic and elegant. A live kitchen and two seafood tanks housing live crabs,lobsters and the fresh catch of the day is the centre of attraction.The live recital of Indian instrumental music further enhances the dining experience.      Food    I was greeted at the door and guided to the table. The menu has Hyderabadi, north-west frontier and coastal specialties. Hyderabad's patthar ka gosht was the pick of the menu apart from the shaami kebab.      The others tantalising dishes include matar ki tikki, achari paneer tikka and tangdi kebab. Galavat kebab -minced lamb patties that are shallow fried -were flavoursome. Cooked perfectly these bites simply melts in the mouth.      The Baghara baingan, eggplant in a thick creamy peanut and tamarind gravy was an absolute delight. The Goan fish curry too was what one would expect from a Goan dish -a balanced use of spices that give a great flavour. The Malabar reef cod pollichathu and tandoori jhingha are some of the popular dishes from the seafood section. The dessert menu also has a very Indian twist to it with the likes of apple jalebi with vanila ice cream, tandoori pineapple, homemade kulfi, and khubani ka meetha on offer.      For those who love Indian cuisine, Kanak would definitely be one of the best places in the city to enjoy the flavours and combinations of spices.      By Sankalp
Britain holds a National Service of Thanksgiving in honor of Queen Elizabeth on Friday, kicking off a weekend of events to mark the official 90th birthday of the country's longest-reigning monarch.      The church service at London's St Paul's Cathedral, attended by a host of dignitaries including other members of the royal family and Prime Minister David Cameron, will be a double celebration for the queen with Prince Philip, her husband of 68-years, marking his 95th birthday.      "Most especially today do we give thanks for the length of years that has been granted to our most gracious Sovereign Lady, Queen Elizabeth: for her faithful devotion, dutiful commitment, loving leadership, gentle constancy, royal dignity and kindly humanity," David Ison, the Dean of St Paul's, will say.      The queen, who has been on the throne for 64 years and is by far the oldest monarch in British history, turned 90 in April but in keeping with tradition to ensure celebrations take place in the summer, she also has an official birthday usually in June.      To mark the occasion, the sixth and final portrait in the series of official birthday pictures taken by U.S. photographer Annie Leibovitz was released, showing the monarch with her husband at her Windsor Castle home, west of London.      Then on Saturday Queen Elizabeth will attend the traditional Trooping the Colour parade of soldiers in ceremonial uniforms in central London followed by a fly-past of Royal Air Force aircraft over Buckingham Palace.      To conclude the celebrations, the queen hosts "The Patrons Lunch" for 10,000 guests at the largest street party to be held on the Mall, the grand avenue that leads to Buckingham Palace, an event organized by her grandson, Peter Phillips.      The guests will hail from some of the more than 600 charities and other organizations of which she is patron with the festivities beamed to large screens in the capital's parks.      The government also said millions of Britons were expected to join in the occasion at local street parties being held across the country.
Watermelon is among the most recommended fruits by nutritionists and dieticians. It is an indulgence allowed to diabetics, weight watchers and heart patients. Its high water content (the highest in any fruit) and high potassium availability ranks it among the top diet foods and one of the safest diuretics. It is used as medicine against kidney stones. According to Dr HK Bakhru in Healing Through Natural Foods, "A few almonds and a teaspoon of poppy seeds and a tablespoon of watermelon seeds ground together make an effective medicine against blood pressure when taken regularly."      Here are some interesting facts about watermelon:    - Watermelon is believed to have originated in South Africa.    - In Nile valley the evidence of watermelon was found in 2nd century BC.    - Watermelons were cultivated in India around 7th century AD and from here they spread to China and later Europe.    - China is the largest producer of watermelon in the world.    - Watermelon fruit is 91% water, contains 6% sugars, and is low in fat.    - The US state of Oklahoma passed a bill in 2007 declaring watermelon as the official state vegetable, with some controversy about whether it is a vegetable or a fruit.    - In China, the seeds are valued and eaten at Chinese New Year celebrations.    - Watermelon juice is made into wine. An alcoholic treat called a "hard watermelon" is made by pouring liquor into a hole in the rind of a whole fruit, and then eating the alcohol-permeated flesh.    - More than 1200 cultivars of watermelon are found in the world.    -In the US, July is National Watermelon Month.    -Lycopene, a powerful carotenoid antioxidant is in larger concentration in watermelon than in tomatoes.    -Drinking watermelon juice before work-out is said to relieve muscle soreness.    -Watermelon is both vegetable and fruit as its rind is also edible.    -L-arginine found in watermelon may also help with erectile dysfunction by helping to relax blood vessels.    Some interesting ways you can use watermelons.              Yo Melona    Sandys Cocktails and Kitchen    Ingredients:    Vodka- 50 ML, Mint syrup- 5 ML, Watermelon- juice 60 ML, Lime juice- 20 ML    Method:    -Put all ingredients in mixing glass with ice, shake it, strain and pour.    -Add Vodka on top and garnish with Cheery and mint and then serve.              Frozen Watermelon POP      Sumit Bansal, Director, Food & Beverages, Radisson Blu Plaza Delhi    Ingredients:    Watermelon-50 gm, Ice-cubes-15, Sugar if required    Method:    -Crush watermelon and 15 ice cubes with hand mortar.    -Place in pop moulds and remove excess water.    -Freeze for 45 minutes.    -Serve              Watermelon & Feta Salad    Chef Rajat Chandna, Executive Sous Chef, The Suryaa    Ingredients:    -Cubed watermelon 6 cups, crumbled feta cheese 1 cup, fresh mint ¼ cup chopped, fresh lime juice ¼ cup, extra-virgin olive oil 1 tbsp    Method:    -Combine watermelon, feta cheese, and mint in a large bowl.    -Pour the lime juice and olive oil over the watermelon mixture and toss gently to coat.    -Serve immediately.              Watermelon Mojito    Chef Rajat Chandna, Executive Sous Chef, The Suryaa    Ingredients:    -Thick slices fresh watermelon: 3 to 4, fresh mint leaves 30 large, simple sugar syrup 1/2 cup, freshly squeezed lime juice 6 tablespoons, sprigs of mint and spears of watermelon, for serving    Method:    -Use a mortar and pestle to mash the mint leaves.    -Remove and discard the rind and seeds of the watermelon.    -Put the fruit into a food processor fitted with the steel blade and puree.    -Put the mashed mint into a large pitcher with 2 cups of pureed watermelon, simple syrup, and lime juice and stir to combine.      -Pour the mixture into a pitcher for serving.    -Place ice cubes in 6 glasses and pour the mojito mixture into the glasses.    -Garnish with sprigs of fresh mint and spears of watermelon. Serve ice cold.
The Lost Caravan is a multi-cuisine restaurant in Bangalore.   Decor  This is a veritable museum of kitsch! Once the initial shockwave wears off, it all comes together into a look that is quite in vogue. Vintage clocks, huge pop-art posters, travel-related curios, suitcases and reclaimed doors -they have spent lavishly on the interiors. Even the air ducting is laminated with maps.We like the triangular island bar in the middle that inspires a spirit of bonhomie.   Food  Some of the cocktails are refreshingly original, like Smoked Orange Martini and the Pomegranate and Ginger Martini. The Kiwi Mojito, however, lacked balance and could not be fixed even after we sent it back. Crab and Mackerel Cake accompanied by aioli and mustard mayonnaise come highly recommended and live up to expectations. We moved on to try the Pulled Pork Samosa and the Spiced Green Pea and Mutton Kheema Pav. The samosas are bite samosas are bite sized, crisp, but not oily, and filled with tender pork. They got wiped out in no time! We then ordered the Spiced Chicken Liver and the Varu tharacha Boneless Chicken Thigh. The liver was very good in terms of quality and quantity perfectly spiced to keep the cocktails flowing. The Varutharacha Chicken is a dry rendition of the famous Kerala Curry, replete with coconut slivers to lend it the authenticity. We ended the meal with a Masala Chai Pannacotta and Ginger Short Bread, which was a com mendable innovation.   Service  The wait staff made some good recommendations. The cocktails and starters arrived promptly, even though the place was quite packed.   Plus and minus  The location is prime - Church Street, just off Brigade Road and yes, they have efficient valets. The Lost Caravan can live up to its name since it is located on the second floor and not easily visible.

What it is    Makeup inspired by the neon colours of a thermal image of the face.      How it started    The idea came when a cosmetics company released a rainbow highlighter. Then beauty vloggers took it to another level when they used the highlighter to create an extreme makeup look that closely resembles thermal imaging.      How it's done    Apply basic makeup like foundation, and then use the various shades of the rainbow highlighter to create the thermal effect. Apply the lighter shades first, and then apply the other shades -blue, purple, yellow, whatever you want -outside what you've already applied. Then dim the lights and take your selfie! If you're adventurous, you could create a dialled-down version of this look to head out.
Decor  Buzzing with life, activity and colour, Bazaar- All Day Diner in Chennai is a happy place to be. It has Turkish touches, Moroccan tiles and a whole lot of kitsch with a conservative mind set. Wooden packaging crates cover the lights, walls have laminated gunny bags, and live islands are busy dishing out orders one after the other. This ambience makes me think of abundance.   Food  As I entered the restaurant, I noticed a fully loaded dessert counter and I almost started my meal backwards. Then, I saw the colours of fruits explode with joie de vivre. It was the fruit counter, where juices are freshly coldpressed. I could choose any combination I liked, and add a dash of ginger, or lime, or nothing at all. While I waited for my mango bloom, a mix of chopped mango and a muddle of ginger, I was presented with a carrot and orange soup. Of course, I loved the colour and the thick, smooth texture. Orange, possessing stronger flavours, dominates, but I'm not complaining. Keeping orange alive on my palate, the paani puri has fresh orange juice in the chilled paani. In contrast, the bhune lasuni jinga has solid overtones of garlic seeping into their warm succulence. They really don't need any palate con fusing chutney.Lord of the wings arrived in a platter, smothered with a shiny brown sauce, looking oh-soenticing. The wing I chose to sink my teeth into was as delicious as it looked. I found myself chewing the meat right to the bone. Pav bhaji pops popped me out of my food nirvana. Not worth a try, I thought, as I discarded my half eaten, fondue-d pop. Fluffy and hot, the vada-pongal's aroma wafted its way to my nose before it arrived at my table. Half the battle was won. Boom! The golden, fluffy vada yielded with a slight crunch. Just the way I like it. And that pongal had all its ingredients in sync.Ending my meal, I made my way to the dessert counter, and picked out the ada pradhaman.Earthy with jaggery and perfectly blended, it sure had my vote.   Plus and minus  I love the casual-ness of Bazaar and the fact that the Grand by GRT is a hotel with a conscience.
You get iced tea in all forms -bottled, powdered, and, of course, homemade. However, there is one unusual way to make iced tea, and that's by leaving it out in the sun for the brewing process. It's called -you guessed it -sun tea. And what better day to make a jug full of it than on Iced Tea Day?   Here's how you make it   - You'll need 4 cups of distilled water 5 teabags of any kind (use more if you want stronger tea).  - A clear glass container with a lid  - Sugar to taste  - Ice   Method  - Sanitize the container thoroughly by placing it in boiling water for a few minutes, and then allow it to dry.  - Fill the container with distilled water.  - Add the teabags to the water  - Place container in direct sunlight for 2-4 hours  - Remove teabags and discard them  - Add sugar if you like  - Pour over ice and serve   This method of making tea is simple, but since the tea has to brew outdoors, it provides the perfect breeding ground for bacteria.   Here are some precautions to follow when making sun tea  - Sanitize the container and lid well.  - Place the container on a tray, not directly on the ground.  - Do not let the tea stand in the sun for more than four hours.  - Discard the tea if you see ropey strands or white spots in it as they are signs of bacteria growth.  - Discard the tea if it has thick or syrupy consistancy.

As it continues to sizzle with temperatures touching 45 degrees for the second week in running, staying healthy remains an important issue. Fret not, here are some effective tips to keep you hale and hearty even as the sun shines bright:   Make easy fashion choices  Avoid dark coloured clothes as they absorb more heat. Opt for light coloured clothes. Wear cotton, mul, rayon and breathable fabrics. Add some splash of vibrant colours in the form of accessories to pep up your look. Avoid clothes that are fig​ure hugging and wear easy and comfy silhouettes. Colourful umbrellas, big shades, hats, cotton scarves or stoles with edgy prints can be of multipurpose use.   Simple tips to stay safe  "While there's nothing like cold water on a hot day to quench the thirst, it should be avoided as soon as you come home from staying out, as it leads to abdomen ramps," suggests physician Jeetendra Patel adding, "Have a glass of water with a pinch of salt, it will help reduce muscle cramps. If you feel uneasy , sit in an air conditioned room for a while. After a couple of minutes, sip water slowly; don't gulp it down. This will reduce the effect of heat stroke. Make sure that you drink at least 4-5 litres of water in a day ."   Eat right, eat light  It is advisable to avoid stepping out between 12pm and 4pm during these harsh times, but for many , stepping for work at odd hours is unavoidable. However, the key lies in keeping your body hydrated the entire day , to keep heat strokes at bay . "Have at least 2-3 glasses of water before leaving home, and always carry a bottle of water mixed with electrolytes when venturing out," suggests dietician Sohini Shah. "Loss of water from the body is high during this time. Lemon water, coconut water, buttermilk, fresh fruitvegetable juices are healthy liquids that can keeps your body hydrated, all day . Have healthy and filling breakfast. Adding seasonal fruits to your breakfast is good. Keep the lunch and dinner light. Add sprouts and salad in your diet, as they have high nutritional value. Keep nuts or roasted peanuts and few pieces of jaggery handy . Avoid junk food, beverages and canned products," says Sohini.
While serving Jalebis in Boston, celebrity chef Ranveer Brar, always wished to play around Indian mithais that have lost their charm in the country where they originated. This idea led to the opening of Brar's first Patisserie-English Vinglish in Bandra recently. Being first of its kind, English Vinglish is a pastry shop serving traditional Indian mithais with a contemporary twist.   Ask him the reason behind concentrating only on Indian mithais, pat comes the reply, "In my career after travelling across Indian states I have realised that Indian sweets are losing their popularity and have become an occasional indulgence as the younger generation finds them unhealthy. So it is an attempt to make it healthy and interesting too."   Explaining the concept of English Vingish Brar asserts, "We are serving dishes like Gulab jamun cheese cake, Kalakand cookies, Aamrakhand pastry etc. As the names suggest, it is basically an amalgamation of pastries with Indian mithais." With an odd 80 dishes from 29 states being served at English Vinglish, Brar is also planning to add flavours of authentic Shahi Tukda from Lucknow in the next menu. For Brar any meal is incomplete without dessert and that's the reason he decided to start with something related to dessert. He adds, "The idea is to present the non-famous mithais in a very contemporary fashion to allure the food lovers. And I had never done any pastry shop before, so the idea was quite refreshing and challenging to me as well."   Last seen in Master Chef India, Brar shot to fame with his unique style and cooking philosophy. Brar's cooking philosophy lies in building relationships. He explains, "For me food is a giver, whenever you cook, serve or eat, you actually build a relationship around it and people associated with it. When I cook, I build a bond with it and I think that helps me to connect with my audience/customer."      His rich culinary experience helped him to pen down his first book 'Come into My Kitchen' which is expected to release in 2016. The book will explore unseen sides of his life, cooking philosophy and a journey from breakfast to dinner from Brar's kitchen. Revealing the most interesting part of book with Times Internet, he divulges, "This book will also see 'theory on constructing a dish'. It is going to be one of its kinds where I have broken the idea of cooking into theory."  At the age of 12, Brar made his first dish 'Meethe Chawal' at a Gurudwara and since then it was very clear in his mind of choosing kitchen as his field of battle. For Brar, the changing scenario for food is positive and is here to stay. He adds, "Now it is not just about earning money and fame, but about creating something ingenious, tasteful and historic."Filed with optimism, Brar is busy in content creation these days and is also working on his second book. He signs off as, "When I started my professional career with Radisson, I never thought I would land up here. For me, it's an endless journey with no strategy planning."
Flouncy and filled with feminine connotations, eyelet fashion pieces can be the perfect thing to weave into your wardrobe this season. Often spotted in breezy cotton whites, eyelet outfits can look equally playful and sophisticated in pastels, `pop' sophisticated in pastels, `pop' colours and even black.Similar to lace and crochet, this eye-catching meshed fabric style are apropos for days when the weather is warm and your mood laidback. Take a sneak peek into how these celebs are sporting this edgy-yet fun fashion trend...      Vanessa Hudgens    Often spotted rocking the festival fashion trends, Vanessa Hudgens wears a wavy tunic, with grommet detailing along the hemline, contrasting black heels and black head band.      Kate Middleton    Talking of the quintessential charm, Kate Middleton looks stunning in this off-white frock with broderie anglaise intricacies that she teams with a pair of cork wedge sandals.      Gigi Hadid    Balancing style and oomph with ease, Gigi Hadid dazzles on the red carpet in this leggy eyelet, black, mini dress and metallic heels.      Olivia Palermo    Olivia Palermo teases up her pear green eyelet skirt with a printed top, white summer jacket and folk pattern sandals.      Julianne Hough    Julianne Hough pulls off an effortlessly elegant look in this embroidered, springtime dress and lace-up pumps.      Nicole Richie    Billowing palazzos and a see-through, grommet-style crop top, Nicole Richie sports every style element that is sure to make head turn.      AnnaSophia Robb    AnnaSophia Robb masters the everyday look in an airy, white eyelet dungaree, coupled with a blue tee and matching pumps.
Romance seeps in effortlessly, when we spot a red rose in its full youth. But did you know that the deeply captivating flower that flirts with your emotions in just one look has 35 million-year-old history? Yes, if fossil evidence is to be believed, rose is that old. The undying symbolism it holds for love and passion was sacred to a number of goddesses including Isis, Aphrodite, and Venus, which also explains its importance on Valentine's Day. In Greek mythology, Aphrodite - Goddess of Love, is believed to have given life to rose from her tears and the blood of her lover, Adonis. It is also used as a symbol of Virgin Mary.      A symbol of beauty and opulence, rose has been significant to the important women in history too. Cleopatra had her living quarters filled with the petals of roses so that when Marc Antony met her, he would long remember her for such opulence and be reminded of her every time he smelt a rose.      Josephine, Napoleon's wife, established an extensive collection of roses at Chateau de Malmaison in the 1800s. This garden became the setting for Pierre Joseph Redoute's work as a botanical illustrator. In 1824, he completed his watercolor collection "Les Rose," which is still considered one of the finest records of botanical illustration.      In Rome, a wild rose would be placed on the door of a room where secret or confidential matters were discussed. The phrase sub rosa or "under the rose" means to keep a secret derived from this ancient Roman practice.      Few facts about rose that you did not know:      The world's oldest living rose bush is thought to be 1000 years old. Today, it continues to bloom on the wall of the Hildesheim Cathedral in Germany.            Juliet, world's most expensive rose is not red - Introduced in 2006 by famed rose breeder David Austin, the Juliet rose took 15 years and £3 million (about $5 million) to breed. It is the world's most expensive rose cultivar.            In 2002, the miniature rose, named the "Overnight Scentsation", journeyed to space to aid in studies regarding the effects of low gravity on the smell of the rose, and to learn how to improve the fragrances of many consumer products.      The rose hip (the fruit of the rose plant) contains high amounts of vitamin C as well as trace amounts of vitamin A and B. Rose hip is considered one of the richest plant sources of vitamin C.      All rose species have 5 petals, except for the Rosa Sericea, which has 4 petals.













70s style voluminous sleeves on tops and dresses are having their moment. Here's how you can flaunt those billowy sleeves.      The bell sleeve-silhouette on clothes is coming back this season. From all-out flares to subtle ones, they can be worn on different kinds of outfits and are suitable for most occasions. Lately, many B-Town actresses have been spotted flaunting this trend not just on tops and dresses but also on their sari blouses. Internationally too, bell sleeves have been making waves on the runway. In fact, celebrity brides like Lily Allen are opting for gowns with this style for their big day!      Style it right    - When you're opting for bell sleeves, keep the rest of the outfit simple. For example, if you're wearing a top with flare sleeves, pair it with classic jeans, leggings, trousers or shorts in a solid colour.    - If you're petite, opt for a top or dress with cut-outs, either on the shoulder or midriff, to show a little skin.    - Avoid mixing prints.    - To start off, wear the outfit in solid white to ease your way into a more dramatic shape.      Tops    Kurtis with bell sleeves look the best when paired with fittrd pants, skinny jeans or pencil skirts. There are a variet of options one choose from- casual or formal, short or long, coloured or printed.      Dresses    Mini dresses that incorporate this trend, give the outfit a very hipster vibe. These are casual yet stylish. Opt for coloured or printed patterns, and loose or fitted styles.








I write my review (about South Mumbai's newest pizzeria) from New York, the city of some great pizzas. A few weeks ago, when I went to dine at 1441 pizzeria, I was in an upbeat mood for two reasons. Firstly, I'd read all about the Italian MasterChef, Renato Viola, consultant to 1441 Pizzeria. Secondly, I'd read about my dining companions' premier Indian artist collective in many a prestigious, international magazines. Founders Arjun Charanjivaand his brilliant artist wife Jasare internationally known for their brand's exclusive artwork on premium lifestyle products by their cutting-edge Indian graphic artists. Not only are both educated in the US, but have worked and won awards in New York...and are pizza aficionados, too. Our review follows...   DECOR  Colourful, rustic vibe in this brightly lit, seriously small Fortarea eatery. Also, an open kitchen, where you line up to order your 'Make Your Own Pizza'.   FOOD  DIY — Do it yourself gets redefined here. Make your own, savoury and dessert pizzas. Not only do you tick mark your choice of sauces (Jain, pilati, mamas, pesto), cheese (smoked mozzarella, buffalo mozzarella), gourmet toppings (avocado, rosemary, eggs, lamb, chicken), regular (over 50) toppings and condiments (chilli, olive oil, garlic olive oil etc), but also dessert toppings (nutella, fruits). So we began with a 11 inch pizza base and then worked our way down the counter (something like Subway?). While the crust was soft and chewy on the bite, each one of us ended up with a mishmash of a finished pizza. Neither of the sauces have a strong enough flavour of their own. Jas enjoyed the bite-sized dough balls (for starters), which I found too tasteless and gummy. Ditto for the Chocolate Dough Balls. The oversweet Nutella Pizza just about passed muster.   MINUS POINTS  Non-vegetarians, please note that there is no pork (so no pepperoni, ham, salami). No beef, no seafood. Slivers of chicken and lamb. No beer or wine. No alcohol. There was no cola (Coke or Pepsi) either when we visited. And they take 'Make Your Own Pizza' to its illogical extreme and we ended up with mishmash. As Jas suggested, they should offer some 'combo suggestions'. And boy! Did it get noisy...   MY POINT  Non-vegetarians stay away! Obviously, the word is out because even though brand new, the Pizzeria was packed. Mainly with Jains and vegetarians. A Jain haven, for sure!

















































Cleveland, June 10, 2016 (AFP) - A year after the   Golden State Warriors made a change to the starting lineup that turned momentum in the NBA Finals, the reigning champions might turn to the bench again. Despite a 120-90 blowout loss to   Cleveland on Wednesday, Golden State owns a 2-1 lead in the best-of-seven series entering game four Friday with the scene shifting back to California for game five on Monday. Last year, it was in game four at Cleveland when the Warriors inserted   Andre Iguodala into the starting lineup and won three games in a row to claim the crown, Iguodala providing defensive heroics against   Cavaliers star   LeBron James and solid scoring to take NBA Finals Most Valuable Player honors. This year, Warriors coach   Steve Kerr isn't saying he plans to change anything, but as he noted Thursday, "Usually what happens is teams adjust after struggles." Golden State's most lopsided playoff loss in Kerr's two seasons with the Warriors could be enough reason to look at moving Iguodala back into the starting five, possibly again in place of Australian center Andrew Bogut. "Wow, we just lost one game. Change the starting lineup?" Kerr said. "All this stuff about, 'Oh, my God, what are we going to do?' All we have to do is take stock. We're up 2-1. We're in pretty good shape. We haven't played that well. Let's play better." That often comes with changing up matchups, which Cleveland did when   Kevin Love was forced out with a concussion.   Richard Jefferson entered, James shifted roles and found his scoring spark and the Cavaliers ended a seven-game losing streak to Golden State. "It's always just are we going to be better off matchup-wise or are we going to be better off with a certain rotation that allows one guy to guard somebody specifically on the other team?" Kerr said of lineup changes. "We watch the film and we make that decision." And while Iguodala offers a faster lineup, Kerr likes the rebounding and shotblocking Bogut offers. "   Boges has done a good job for us in the series," Kerr said. "We didn't feel like we had to match what they were doing because of their change in their starting lineup. We can always make a quick substitution. "I don't think that had anything with us losing. We just got our tails kicked. We were soft. And when you're soft, you get beat on the glass and turn the ball over. Those are the telltale signs. We can't be soft in game four if we want to win." Cleveland's Tristan   Thompson expects to see Bogut against him inside the paint, but he does recall that Bogut played few minutes beyond game three in last year's finals. "Whoever they throw out there, we've got to be ready to play," Thompson said. "It comes down to effort and looking at the guy in front of you and saying, 'I'm going to make it tough for him. He's not going to come in and kick my tail.'" js/rcw




Inspired by Jon Snow's hairstylein Game Of Thrones, the man permaka `merm' has dethroned the iconic man bun. With the popular Game Of Throne's character Jon Snow's magical resurrection in the show creating a buzz on social media, fans across the globe are now emulating his iconic hairstyle -the man perm or merm. The look, sported by actor Kit Harrington in the series, has also been spotted on models on the runway . After man buns, ponies and braids, salons are now getting requests for the man perm from their male customers.   What's new this season ?  Unlike the tightly wound perms worn by women in the 80s, this time around, men are opting for more tousled, soft waves. This look can be achieved by using very large perm rods, which give looser curls. Merms lend the hair more movement, making the curls look more natural. More and more men are going in for techniques like digital perming, thus making waves of the hair appear subtler and curls more pronounced when wet.   How to care for your merm ?  - Apart from regularly going in for deep conditioning treatments, use a deep cleansing shampoo with proteins and minerals to prevent a dry scalp.  - Once you get a perm, wait for two to three days before washing your hair -the curls need time to set in.  - Opt for hair products especially devised for curls. Avoid creamy formulas, as these weigh down curls.  - After shampooing your hair, scrunch it as it dries. Avoid drying wet hair with a towel.Use a cotton T-shirt instead.  - Never blow dry or straighten your hair with an iron.  - Wait for at least a month after you get your perms, if you want to colour or get any other chemical treatment on your hair.


After making a promising debut in Pannaiyarum Padminiyum, Justin Prabhakaranhas now become a composer to watch out for with his music for Oru Naal Koothu (ONK). The young composer, who is very particular about using live instruments in his works, is now busy with a handful of projects in Kollywood. He talks to What's Hot on his journey into film music, the songs of ONK and what having so many composers on the scene means to a music lover. Excerpts:   Tell us about yourself...  I'm from Madurai, and have been interested in music from a young age, even though no one in my family is a musician. I would say the music played at the church was an influence. Initially, I was more interested in playing music than composing music. After school, I wanted to join music college, but ended up taking zoology at the American College in Madurai. There, I formed a band and we performed our own composition for a cultural fest. We won at the event, and from then on, started composing our own music. Once I finished college, I worked in a studio run by Derek, a friend, for five months. But seeing my interest in music, he suggested that I should go to Chennai, learn music and try my luck in films. I applied for the Chennai film institute and got selected in my very first attempt.After studying in the sound department there, I decided to work as a keyboard player for music directors. It was then that I realised that one needs a studio set-up to survive. So, I started working as a sound engineer for Harris Jayaraj from 2009 to 2013.   How did you get your break in films?  While I was working as a sound engineer, I used to compose for short films that contested in Naalaya Iyakkunar. I worked on the shorts that were part of seasons two and three of the show. I have scored for about 70 short films, and have won the Best Music Director award during both the seasons. That is where I got acquainted with director Arunkumar. When he got the chance to direct Pannaiyarum Padminiyum, he roped me in as its composer. Following that, I have composed the music for Orange Mittai, the Malayalam film Kunjiramayanam, and now, Oru Naal Koothu.   Adiyae Azhage in ONK has become a chartbuster. Can you tell us what went into the making of this song?  Actually, the song was not composed for this film. He wanted the tune and the lyrics to be rural and the arrangements western. I played this to director Nelson, and he decided that this should be his song. I had my apprehensions as I did not create this for the particular sequence in the film, but he was so confident and told me that it will work.   What made you choose Sean Roldan, who is a composer himself, to sing this number?  I felt that for this particular tune, his voice would be perfect as it is quite flexible in terms of range. Since he is also a composer, he could instantly grasp what I wanted and we recorded it in just an hour.Since he knows Tamil, he added much feeling to the lyrics with his vocal expres sions.   You have retuned Gopalakrishna Bharati's Carnatic composition Eppo Varuvaro in this album. Did you have any apprehensions on how purists might react to this?  The director had this idea and asked me if I could record the song. But I suggested that I will retune it for the film. But, yes, I did have some doubts early on because it is a very popular piece and I did not want to spoil the beauty of the original in any way.Thankfully, the song has only fetched me positive reviews so far.   What are your upcoming projects?  My next release is Raja Mandhiri, and the audio is already out. It is a comedy that also has some emotional moments. I'm also composing for Ulkuthu starring Attakathi Dinesh and Kaala Koothu, which has Kalaiyarasan, Prasanna and Dhanshika in the lead roles. The former is an action film while the latter is an emotional drama.   Given that we have seen a number of young composers bursting on the scene in the last few years, do you find the field competitive today?  There is no place for competition or ego because there is space in this industry for each one of us. I'm good friends with my fellow composers like Sean and Nivas Prasanna and we regularly call up each other and discuss our work. For listeners, too, the fact that there are more composers in the field means they get to hear a variety of music and sounds.

Corn starch dries up excess oil leaving skin soft and clear, and kiwis can be used as an effective face scrub for oily skin, say beauty experts. Here are some remedies that will help you deal with oily skin.      KIWI    This refreshing and juicy fruit is frequently used as an effective face scrub for oily skin.Take one kiwi, peel off the skin and put it in a bowl. Mash the kiwi well. Add two teaspoons of sugar and two drops of sunflower oil to it.Mix it well and scrub it on your face, neck, hands and legs with your fingertips.      CINNAMON AND NUTMEG     CINNAMON and nutmeg is a good acne and anti-ageing treatment as it boosts the collagen production, improves blood circulation, fades the marks from the skin and is a very beneficial homemade face pack.Take a teaspoon of ground cinnamon mixed with one teaspoon of nutmeg powder and two teaspoons of honey.Apply and leave it on for 30 minutes before rinsing it with warm water.      AVOCADO     AVOCADO is beneficial to nourish, enhance and rejuvenate skin. Avocado face masks can also work for people with oily and acne prone skin and are excellent for ageing skin.Break one egg, remove the yolk, whip the white portion until frothy. Take out the avocado pulp and mash it properly. Mix the two together with one teaspoon of lemon juice. Apply a thick layer to your face and leave it for 20 to 25 minutes.      CHAMOMILE TEA    Chamomile possesses many powerful skin properties such as anti-inflammatory, anti fungal, anti-bacterial, anti septic, and contains essential oils and antioxidants.      Chamomile tea helps to in crease circulation and kill the bacteria that causes acne. Make a mixture of this tea and oat meal in equal proportions, nearly two drops of almond oil and two teaspoons of honey. Apply this paste on your oily skin. Use this face mask for 10 to 15 minutes.      CORN STARCH    It dries up excess oil, leaving the skin soft and clear. It has a drying action that will leave your face or skin with an appealing matte-look. Prepare a thick paste of corn starch by adding rosemary water or water and one teaspoon of olive oil. Apply the paste on your nose or acne prone area of your skin. Let the paste remain till it becomes dry. Rinse your skin surface with warm water.
Superstars for their clubs, can they hold on to their cult status in national colours?   It's time to step up...   EDEN HAZARD:   On the back of ending the season on a personal high with Chelsea after a spluttering EPL campaign where he endured a barren run of 29 games without scoring, Hazard seems in fine fettle going into the European Championships.   The added responsibility of captaining his side in the absence of Vincent Kompanymay also help raise his game.   GARETH BALE:   This will be the Real Madrid forward's first major tournament at the international level. The most expensive transfer in football history, Bale is heading into the Euro on the back of what has been his 'coming of age' campaign for the Spanish giants. Even in internationals, Bale's five goals in six matches--he had only found the net 14 times in the 48 earlier fixtures in 2015 showed that the winger is ready to assume more responsibility for Wales.   ANTOINE GRIEZMANN:   Many will remember the French striker's catastrophic penalty miss for Atletico Madrid in the Champions League final against Real in May. But the highly rated Griezmann was, in large measure, the reason why they got there in the first place. Without Karim Benzema, and with an utterly inconsistent Olivier Giroud, hosts France will hope that he improves his paltry return of seven goals in 27 internationals.   PAUL POGBA:   The 6 ft 3 in Juventus midfielder is being billed as the finest in his position that the tournament has to offer. Claiming that he learnt a lot from the charismatic Andrea Pirlo, one would hope that Pogba makes the most of that experience. A former Manchester United academy player, he is the kind of figure you want in the heart of midfield. If at all, there is something that he has failed to produce in national colours, it is a penchant for finishing off moves. At 23, France would hope that he comes of age.   JAMIE VARDY:   At 29, and with his future at Leicester City hanging in the balance, Vardy needs to show that his club success was not a one-off.   Blessed with speed that would make even Theo Walcott take notice, he is everything that the Three Lions have been craving for.   ALVARO MORATA:   Talk of a big money move to the EPL has the potential of attracting most players while on international duty. For his sake, you would hope that Morata somehow finds a way to ignore it. Though not a prolific scorer even on the domestic circuit, the Juventus forward helps bring those around him into play. In a Spanish team that prides itself on quick passing and off the ball movement, Morata's style will complement their game.

OSLO: Andre de Grasse ran a season-best 10.07 seconds to win the 100 meters sprint event at the Bislett Games.      The Canadian sprinter was followed by American runners Michael Rodgers, Dentarius Locke and Ameer Webb who finished in 10.09, 10.12 and 10.18 respectively, here on Thursday, reports Xinhua.      "I ran my season best as I wanted," De Grasse said. "In next races I hope for more improvements. Next should be definitely a sub-10 seconds."      The 21-year-old had finished third in the 100m and 4x100m relay at the 2015 world track and field championships in Beijing.      In the women's 200m, world champion Dafne Schippers won in 21.93. Elaine Thompson of Jamaica finished second in 22.64, while Ivet Lalova-Collio of Bulgaria was third in 22.78.      For the pole vault, Olympic champion Renaud Lavillenie of France defeated world champion Shawnacy Barber of Canada to win with a jump of 5.80m.
